Title: Beneath

Description: A terrible secret is finally ended when a couple move into their new home.


Chapter 1: Beneath

Claire beamed as they left the house and squeezed Paul's hand.


"It's perfect!"


Paul grinned, his usual sombre exterior melting under the light of Claire's smile.


"I know, isn't it?" He said, squeezing back.


The estate agent folded her clipboard under her arm.


"That sounds positive. If it's convenient, we can arrange an offer now?"


Claire and Paul looked at each other.


"I think we'd like that."


The house truly was spectacular. Even empty as it was now it still looked like a home, it just had that aura about it. Three double bedrooms, a large lounge/dinner and a separate kitchen. The bathroom, Claire thought, was the decider though. Sparkling white and black marble (or faux marble, Paul had said cynically) with a beautiful tub in the middle of the room. It was like something out of the movies and Claire had fallen in love with it straight away. The landlord was offering it up for sale after a string of failed rentals, he had claimed. For the price it was fantastic and Paul, assuming something must be wrong with it, did some research. They had discovered that the house had been the scene of a nasty child abuse case that had ended in a murder-suicide and what was now a beautifully manicured garden had once been a mass-grave for the poor children that had been the victims of the previous occupants. It had been all over the papers several years ago and since then the property had never remained occupied for long, no doubt because the tenants eventually discovered the truth about it's past. It was a horrible thought but Paul and Claire were a modern couple and pragmatic about the whole thing. It was the opportunity of a lifetime. The past was the past and if they happened to profit from other peoples superstitions then that was a nice bonus on top of an already beautiful home. 

 

And that's what they thought of it as - home. It wasn't just a house any more. Making the offer and signing the paperwork was just formalities at this point.

* * * * *

They'd had to eat Ben, they'd had no other choice. The Hole had stopped providing, God had abandoned them. They had tried so hard to be good, to be quiet as God commanded but nothing could absolve them of their wickedness. They were born in sin, down in the dark. They were demons, monsters and though God had tried, time had proven that even God could not love them any more.


It had been weeks since the Hole last provided and even then, over the last few years it had only come infrequently in stops and starts. They'd had to make do on what was left over and when in finally stopped altogether they eventually turned on the Others, the scurrying things in the dark. Eventually even the Others stopped coming. At first they had taken it as a sign, that God had come back and banished the Others for their cruel bites and scratches against them. But a week passed, then another and hope faded. They'd been abandoned, forsaken. They deserved it of course, God had told them of their wickedness many times but they had dared to hope for forgiveness. In the dark, to their shame, they knew that it was their audacity to hope for such a thing which had driven even God away.


Ben had tasted bitter and sickly, much worse than the Others had. He had stopped moving a few days ago, his usual wheezing breath ceasing with a final, horrible rattle. God usually took the dead away and they had waited, hoping he might come but after a few days their hunger gnawed at them like an Other at their toes and they had taken Ben and shared him amongst themselves.


Ben had been one of the oldest at the ripe old age of 14 and so he was as afflicted as the rest. His lips had been curled in a permanant snarl and his top row of teeth had curved along his gumline in warped and crazy patterns. He had a severe hunch and had walked with a limp. Not many made it to Ben's age, he'd been a mentor to them all, helped the most afflicted ones to eat. God had liked that and had loved Ben most. Maybe that was why Ben had fallen first. A small mercy.


Simon was coming into his middle age at 7 and was the next oldest. Carl was 5 but he was so badly afflicted he couldn't talk, his tongue lolled out dry and cracked from his missing lower jaw. Sally was the Mother, and so her age didn't matter though Simon guessed she was perhaps Ben's age. She was with child again, though whether it was one of God's children or Ben's they didn't know. They had her laid down quietly in the corner, covered in Ben's old sheets and given her more of Ben to eat than the rest of them. She would need it and Simon wanted to hope that Ben's strength might guide her through the birth safely but he didn't dare. Hope had got them in their current situation. For demons like them it was poison. Instead, he just willed himself to feel numb and pushed such thoughts as hope to the back of his mind.


The lights suddenly came back on.

Chapter 2: Faith

"That should do it." Paul said, wiping his brow as he shut the door of the fusebox and climbed down the stepladder.


The lights flickered back to life as Claire walked into the hall from the kitchen. Her long brown hair was tied back in a bun and covered by a green headscarf Paul had bought her a few years ago and she was wearing a pair of yellow rubber gloves and an apron.


"That's great honey! You know what that means?" She said, leaning on one of the numerous cardboard boxes in the hallway.


"XBox!" Paul grinned.


Claire pouted and rolled her eyes. "No, it means you can put the kettle on and make your poor wife a brew."


Paul chuckled and scooped up Claire in his arms carrying her back into the kitchen with him.


"Love you."


"Love you too."


Paul looked around at the kitchen, Claire had been busy.  Stacked high were piles of wet, gleaming cutlery.


"Did you clean everything?" Paul blinked.


"Well everything would have got bits on and made everything taste weird."


Paul just shook his head and flipped the switch on the kettle. As he did, he noticed the sink had a garbage disposal.


"Hey, did you try this out? Could be useful."


Claire pulled a face. "No, those things creep me out, too many bad horror movies have convinced me I'm gonna lose a hand to those things."


Paul rolled his eyes and lowered his arm into the garbage disposal area of the sink, folding his arm along the bottom as he did so to make it look like he was putting his hand inside.


"Paul don't!"


"It's perfectly safe, look-ARRRRRRGH!"


"PAUL!"


"Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!" Paul laughed as he revealed his arm.


Claire stared daggers at him. "You bastard! I can't believe you did that!"


"Oh come on!" Paul said, still laughing and wiping tears from his eyes


Claire raised an eyebrow and put her hands on her hips. "I was going to say we could put the bed together next, but now I'm not so sure."


"Whuh? Oh! Oh come on, I was just kidding, it was funny!"


"Keep digging, mister." Claire grinned, miming shovelling motions. "Besides, I have all this drying to do."


"Let me take care of that." Paul said a little too eagerly as he grabbed a tea towel from the counter.


"Fine, I'm going to plug in the phone and see if they've activated the line yet."


"Uhuh." Paul grunted, thinking of the bed as he dryed his way through the cutlery.


Claire plugged in the phone in the hall and the dialtone buzzed in her ear indicating the line was indeed active. Browsing through the takeout menus that she had collected and put on the side earlier she picked a local pizza place.


"Paul," she yelled, "I'm gonna get pizza, you want anything?"


"Errr, the usual."


"K babe."


She placed the order and by the time Paul had finished drying up the door bell rang. Claire answered the door.


"Pizza delivery." The delivery boy said, looking down the hallway. "Hey, you just move in?"


"Yeah, me and my husband." Claire said fishing in her purse for money. "Sorry about this."


"Oh no worries. It's £10.98 by the way. Never thought we'd see people move back in here after what happened."


Claire gave him a look as she pulled out a twenty pound note.


"Uh, sorry, you probably don't want to hear about that do you. Uh, do you have anything smaller?"


"No." Claire said fishing around in her purse again. "Paul!"


"Yeah?"


"Do you have a tenner?"


"I'll check!"


"Go on then." Claire sighed, holding the pizzas. "Tell me the horror stories, we already know about the incident here."


"Errr, well it's not just that. They say it's haunted by all the kids they used to, you know. People say they heard voices, seen things. S'why nobody stayed for long."


"Until now." Paul said as he came to the door witha tenner in hand. "Bunch a rubbish, I think."


"Don't be rude." Claire chided Paul, handing over two pound coins. "Well thanks for the pizzas. Bye."


They closed the door on the delivery boy before he could give them their change.


"Cheeky little sod!" Exclaimed Paul. "Fancy saying something like that. Customer service at it's bloody finest."


"You think there's any truth to it?" Claire said, a slice of pizza already halfway in her mouth.


They sat down on some boxes in the hallway and munched for a while before Paul answered.


"Well, I expect the neighbours will hear some ooos and ahhhhs tonight."

* * * * *

Simon could have sworn he'd heard a sound coming from the Hole. They'd heard noises before, back when God still came to them and occasionally afterwards but since the last time it had provided the Hole had been silent. He couldn't help but feel a surge of hope and he hated himself for it, but there it was. Sounds from the hole meant God had returned, he'd come back. He looked at the remains of Ben sadly and wondered what God would think of them.


Carl had heard it too, Simon could tell from the grunting noises he was making. Carl would probably die next, without Ben to feed him he would starve. Simon had tried to do it but Carl had nearly choked to death and even Sally had sat up to try and help him cough the pieces of Ben back up. They hadn't wanted to waste any more and so Simon and Sally and shared the coughed up morsels and the rest of Ben between them and Carl had gone hungry. The light had stung Simon's eyes when it had come back on, they had been in the dark for so long they had almost forgotten what it was to see. At first they had been excited but they quickly curbed their enthusiasm, not wanting to tempt fate. Light, Simon reasoned, might have been caused by anything. The others had reacted hostilely to that nugget of thought. God had made everything, what could the light be if it was not from Him? Simon didn't have an answer but he didn't believe it was God who had brought it back either. God had left them, made them eat Ben. Why would he do that if he loved them as much as he had said? Why would love them only to leave them to die? His faith was shaken and despite the recent events he couldn't believe that God had come back. 

He realised, sadly, that he'd finally managed to stop hoping.

Chapter 3: Small Mercies

When the lights had gone off again, things had changed. Simon's doubts kept going around and around in his head and eventually he came to a decision. It had taken much arguing, but neither Sally or Carl were in any state to stop him.

"He's a liar!" Simon had shouted, hot tears burning on his cheeks. "He didn't love us, if he did, why would he do this!? He used us and then he abandoned us!"

Sally had gasped at the outburst, shocked by the blasphemy. "Simon!" She croaked. "You can't say those things, he'll know and punish us all. Why do you want to hurt us?"

"He wont because he's gone and he's not coming back!"

Carl began crying. Sobs bubbling out of his open throat like someone choking on mucus.

"It's okay Carl." Sally cooed soothingly. "Simon is just upset, the hunger is making him say mean things."

"It's not the hunger." Simon growled darkly. "It's Him. I'm leaving, I'm going to find him."

Sally gasped again and Carl burst into a renewed fit of choking sobs.

"You can't Simon! We are bad people, you'll break the world, it'll burn you away!"

"He said that! He's lying!"

"Don't!"

But Simon ignored her. In the dark he felt his way over to the door where that God entered the world through and felt for the handle. When he found it he pulled and twisted and heaved with all his might but he was weak and the door barely moved at all. He felt dust fall on him as he let go and slumped back against the wall defeated.

"You can't go, He wont let you." Sally called from the back of the room.

Her voice only renewed his anger and he tried again and again. On the last tug he felt something give and the door burst open towards him. He fell back, hitting his head hard on the wall and it took a moment for Simon to get over the sudden shock and pain in the back of his head. There was nothing behind the door but sharp angles and things both hard and soft to the touch as he felt blindly around in the darkness, just another kind of wall.

* * * * *

"I think the pizza boy was right." Claire said as she climbed back into bed, setting down her glass of water on the side.

Paul grunted, asleep.

"Paul," she said, shaking him gently. "I think I heard something when I went to get a glass of water."

Paul groaned and rolled over. "Whuh?"

"I think there's ghosts Paul, I heard something down stairs."

"Nonsense." Paul grunted sleepily. "Probably just a burglar."

"Paul!"

"Fine, I'll check it out, it's probably just the house settling though."

Paul sat up and looked at his mobile phone on the bedside table. "Jesus Claire, it's two in the morning. Look, just wait here."

Rubbing his eyes Paul headed down stairs. Claire waited and as the minutes passed she got more and more nervous. Just as she was about to go and  see what had happened, Paul popped into the doorway, giving her a start.

"It was nothing. Nobody's there. You're safe, okay?"

Claire nodded, feeling a little stupid.

"I love you Paul." Claire said, hugging him as he lay back down.

"Tell me that again at a sensible time."

* * * * *

"You're like a big kid you know." Claire laughed.

"Come on, I've never used one of these things before, it's cool." Paul said, dangling the remains of yesterdays pizza over the garbage disposal.

Claire just laughed and shook her head. Paul dropped the remains of the pizza down the hole and it burst into life, grinding and buzzing until it was gone.

"Holy crap! That was awesome!"

"You mister, " Claire said hugging him from behind and talking softly into his ear "are far too easily amused."

"Simple pleasures for simple minds." Paul laughed, turning around in her arms and kissing her on the forehead. "Spot any more ghosts last night?"

"No, and I said I was sorry. You were right, it must have just been the house settling."

"It's okay, I was just grumpy. Any time before eight o'clock should be banned. I'm gonna go grab a shower, care to join me?"

Claire rolled her eyes. "Is there any time you aren't horny?"

Paul gave her a sarcastic look and pointed at his crotch. "Hello, I'm a guy."

Claire gave a sly grin as she turned back to the kettle and began pouring herself some tea. "Really? I hadn't noticed."

"Ouch! See you in ten."

All by herself in the kitchen, Claire looked through the cupboards for something for breakfast. All they can was cans and jars and while she reckoned Paul might be fine with curry sauce on cornflakes, she had somewhat more refined tastes. Luckily they still had some bread and so she made some toast. When she took out the jam from the cupboard she realised it had gone off and so she tipped the furry mess down the garbage disposal. Despite herself she felt a little thrill as it happily ate it away, there was something faintly exciting about it. She moved the jar to the sink to wash it out when she heard a sound emanate from the garbage disposal and dropped it, smashing it on the kitchen floor. She barely noticed though, the faint sounds, she could have sworn they were voices but it was too quiet to tell.

"Is that toast I smell?" Paul said as he walked into the kitchen in a towel.

"Don't come in! There's broken glass!" Claire shouted, snapped out of her intense listening by Paul's voice.

"What happened?"

"I just dropped something, that's all."

"Sure it wasn't a poltergeist?"

Claire just looked at him, upset, and Paul could see he had gone too far. "Shut up Paul, I said I was sorry all right? Just leave it alone. You always have to take things too far don't you?"

Paul went to move forwards but then remembered the glass and stood his ground. "I'm sorry, I didn't think-"

"That's right, you didn't. Not everyone has your sense of humour, Paul. Look just get dressed, I'll clean this up."

Paul took the opportunity to retreat and thanked heaven for small mercies.

 

Chapter 4: Condemnation

The lights were on when Simon woke up, still slumped against the wall by the door. With the lights on he could see clearly what was blocking his way. Beyond the door were stairs but they were covered with rubbish. Boxes and toys and broken, jagged things stuffed down the stairwell and crammed up high. They were thick with dust and when Simon reached out to push something experimentally, the whole mass shifted and a cloud of dust billowed out into the air, making them all cough.

There was something else in the air though, a pungent smell Simon couldn't recognize. He followed his nose and it lead him to the Hole. It had provided for them! Under the Hole lay a pile of mush and a sticky, red substance. Scooping up some with his hands he brought it to his face and sniffed it. It smelt sweet, strange, alien. It had a strange texture to it and it gave Simon an idea. Bringing it over to Carl, he slowly daubed the red goo as far down Carl's throat as he dared. The goo slid down easily and Carl's eyes squinted as they did when he was smiling. He spent the next half hour slowly feeding Carl before he took the remainder of the food to Sally.

Sally rolled over painfully in her cot and turned to face him. "The Hole provides. He is giving you another chance Simon. Close the door, forget those terrible thoughts."

Simon remained silent as he fed Sally. When he was finished he wiped his hands on his rags. "I can't Sally. Don't you see, this doesn't mean anything."

"What happened to you Simon? Didn't God love you enough? Why would you think that?"

Tears welled up in his eyes as he tried to hold on to his anger. It was the only thing he had left. If he admitted he had been wrong, then that would mean he had been the cause of all this, that God had punished them because of him, that they had eaten Ben, because of what he had done, because he hadn't had faith.

"It's not true. He never loved us." Simon said weakly.

"Don't say that Simon. I, if nothing else, am proof of that." Sally said, taking hold of Simon's hand and placing it on her stomach. Simon's lip trembled as he felt the faint beating of a heart through her skin.

"No. NO!" Simon yelled, ripping himself away from her as if she were poison. "I'm leaving, we all are!"

He ran over to the stairs and began pulling and tugging as the detritus, pulling out boxes and hurling them across the room. Something shattered in his hand and he dropped it, retreating away as the rubbish avalanched down towards him. A dust cloud filled the room and took a while to settle but when it did, Simon climbed back into the stairwell. After the avalanche he could see fully to the top, past jutting poles and the corners of boxes to another door at the top. What was behind it? Maybe it was Heaven.

He looked back at Sally and Carl and saw the look in their eyes, one of condemnation and fear. He knew they would never forgive him but he was past caring. God had left them behind, abandoned them and Sally and Carl didn't deserve that whatever Simon had or hadn't done. Ben hadn't deserved it. God was wrong and Simon would see the others out of here if it killed him. God had failed the others, but he wouldn't.

He began to climb.

* * * * *

Claire had finished sweeping up the shards of glass and put them in the bin but she was still disturbed by the sounds she had heard earlier. Paul had made her angry, mocking her like that. She knew he hadn't meant any harm but she was frightened and his comments had just pushed the wrong buttons. She felt bad for yelling at him. Thinking of him reminded her of the noises and thinking of the noises creeped her out again. Letting out a deep breathe she composed herself and tried to rationalise it all. Maybe it had been something stuck in the pipes and what she had heard was water gurgling past it. Yes, that must have been it. Nonetheless she didn't want to hear it again so she moved the tap over the garbage disposal and let it run, hopefully it would knock whatever was blocking the pipes free.

"Hey, you okay?" Paul, freshly clothed, asked from the doorway.

Claire turned around. "Yeah."

"I'm sorry about earlier, why don't we go out for breakfast? My treat."

"That'd be nice."

The tap was still running when they left.

 

Chapter 5: Home Sweet Home

Simon climbed.

He was tired, weak and many times he stumbled, nearly impaling himself on a jutting pole or jagged knick-knack from the mountain of garbage that littered the stairwell. Carl was crying again, choking sobs like raspy hiccups echoing from below. He seemed far away now, as Simon ascended the stairway to Heaven.

"You've murdered us all Simon! You have to come back!" Sally called from below, but he ignored her. He'd found a purpose in his climb, something to fight for.

He placed his hands ahead of himself and something came loose, tumbling down behind him and landing with a wet splash. That sound, it wasn't right. Indecision gripped him. Should he turn back and find out what was happening or should he carry on towards salvation? The decision was made for him as the rubbish suddenly lurched, knocking him backwards and hurling him down the stairs. As he tumbled a pole stabbed painfully in his spine and he collapsed at he bottom with a splash, groaning with pain in an inch of dirty water.

"Look at what your blasphemy has cost us Simon! You've brought down God's wrath upon us!" Sally screeched hoarsely.

Simon picked himself up slowly, trembling under his own weight. He was cold and wet and more than a little frightened and his small dark eyes darted around, looking for an explanation for what was happening. He saw Carl laying sideways in the water, tiny waves lapping against him as he begun to shiver uncontrollably. Simon waded over to him and picked him up, placing him on Sally's cot. He moved away but Sally gripped hold of his arm with more strength than he had ever  given her credit for.

"Look at what you've done!"

Simon stared back into her eyes and tried to pull himself free of her grip. "It wasn't me! It was Him! It's always Him!"

"No! You never believed! Even when He loved you as he loved me! You never let him into your heart and so you drove him away! This is your fault! It's all your fault!"

"Let go of me!" Simon yelled, swinging his free arm back and landing a powerful backhander across Sally's face. She recoiled, stunned and her grip ceased.

"I can fix this." Simon muttered, his voice trembling. "I can save us."

Sally remained silent, her dark, empty stare saying more than words ever could. Looking around, Simon spotted the source of the water, the Hole was drowning them.
The Hole provides.
 Simon thought.
Even death.
 He tried to block it with some of the rubbish from the stairwell but the pieces were either too big or they just tore apart in his hands. His anger swelled as the water splashed him in the face and he tasted it in his mouth. It was clean, pure. Purer than anything they had ever had before. They'd drunk from the small toilet in the corner all this time, it being the only source of water and now they would drown in this clean, pure water from above. He hated Him, he hated Him with all his heart that he would mock them like this, even in death. He wanted to be sorry, to beg for forgiveness that the others might live but he just couldn't do it. He found himself whispering into the Hole and then found himself shouting,
screaming
at it with a strength he'd never realised he had.

"I hate you! I hate you! I HATE YOU! We aren't the monsters, you are! You're a murderer and a liar and I hate you!"

Both Sally and Carl were crying now, sobbing uncontrollably as the water rose slowly and Simon waded back over to them.

"You have to come with me. You have to climb!"

Sally batted his hand away as if it was a poisonous snake. "Go! Leave us! God might yet forgive you but I never will. I'll never go with you, never!"

"Don't be an idiot! You'll die!"

"If that's what He wants, I'll die! We both will!"

"No! If you want to die for that bastard, then fine, but not Carl!" Simon yelled as he reached to pull Carl away from her.

She screamed and clawed at him and Carl as he pulled. Carl cried out and they was a sickening snap as Simon fell back into the water, Carl in his arms, screaming, his arm hanging limp at an impossible angle.

Simon and Sally looked at each other in shock and then Sally burst into tears, panicked, hysterical sobs wracking her entire body. Simon swallowed down the hard knot in his throat, picked up Carl and turned his back on Sally. The stairwell awaited.

Rubbish and filth floated past him and he saw a cable bobbing gently on the surface. Plucking it out of the water he tied it around Carl's waist, securing the other end around his own. Carl was heavy on his back, but he strained with all his might to pull himself up the peak, the sound of running water and hysterical crying the soundtrack to his escape. As he made it halfway, the debris shifted under him and he almost fell back again but he managed to slide down on his belly, something sharp tearing painfully into his groin. He let out a hiss and continued.

It seemed like forever, but eventually he reached the top. He tried the handle of the door but it just came out in his hands. His blood ran cold and drained out of his face.

"No! No! NO!" He yelled, hammering at the door with his fist and the doorknob still in his hand.

The force loosened the debris some more and he slipped again but he caught himself on the wall and leaned forwards, regaining his balance. Wielding the doorknob, he stabbed at the door with it's dark metal axle, screaming in frustration.

* * * * *

"Home sweet home" Paul said to Claire as he turned the key in the lock and let themselves back in.

The carpet squelched under their feet.

"What the hell?" Paul exclaimed.

"Oh no! The tap!" Claire cried and dashed into the kitchen. The water was overflowing out of the garbage disposal and had pooled all along the kitchen floor, reaching out into the hall where the cardboard boxes containing all of their belongs were beginning to sag. She quickly turned the tap, flapped her arms around in a panic.

"Oh Paul! The boxes!"

"I'm on it!" Paul yelled, grabbing a box.

The cardboard sloughed away in his hands. "Awww crap, this is bad. Help me move this stuff into the lounge."

Together Claire and Paul frantically transferred the contents of the boxes into the lounge. Several of their books had been ruined and Paul's beloved XBox had been sat in the damp for some time. When the last of it was moved across Paul butted his forehead against the door frame in frustration.

"How did this happen?"

Claire swallowed hard. "I think it was my fault. I was trying to unblock the garbage disposal. When you surprised me with breakfast, I must have left it running."

Paul spun around. "So this is my fault?"

"No that's not what I meant." Claire said tiredly. She walked over and hugged Paul. "Damn it, why did this have to happen?"

"It doesn't matter." Paul sighed. "Where did you put the vacuum cleaner? Let's clean this mess up."

"It's under the stairs."

Paul squelched through the hall and open the under-stairs door.  As he reached inside to pull out the battered red wet-vac he heard a noise, a muffled thumping sound.

"Hey Claire, do you hear this?"

Claire came through from the lounge and listened. "Hear what?"

Thump! Thump! Thump!

"That!"

"Jesus! What is it?"

"I think it's coming from under the stairs."

Paul peered inside again but apart from the vacuum cleaner there was nothing, just the slanted ceiling of the little hideaway and the four plain walls. Suddenly, the wall facing the stairs cracked, chips of plaster flaking off as the crack raced along the wall, drawing the outline of a door in the plaster.

"Claire, call the police! I think someone's trapped in here!"

Claire quickly ran to the phone and dialled 999 while Paul heaved out the vacuum cleaner and tried to talk to whoever was on the other side.

"Hello? Can you hear me? If you can hear me then get back, I'm going to try and kick the door in!"

The thumping abated and so Paul climbed into the small space, bracing his back against the far wall and kicked at the plastered up door. It shook under the force but didn't budge. The plaster crumbled away showing a dark wood behind it.

"I'm gonna try again, stand back!" Paul yelled and kicked the door again.

This time, something gave, and his foot punched through the wood panelling of the door. He struggled, pulling it out and repositioned himself, crouching so he could peer through the hole. A small child's hand, smeared with red and brown reached through. The smell that followed was awful beyond belief and Paul recoiled, gagging. The sound of rasping hiccups and wheezing, wet sobbing would stay with him forever.

Chapter 6: Epilogue

Simon was finding it hard to understand what was really going on. He didn't trust the big people and he couldn't put aside the idea that they had all been in on it from the start, that God and they had been playing some kind of grisly, macabre joke on them all from the beginning.

Not God, no. That much he believed. At least Sally hadn't been alive to hear that terrible, beautiful truth. She'd fallen, trying to get out of her cot and landed on her stomach killing her baby and herself in the process. She'd been so weak she hadn't had the strength to lift her face out of the water and she had drowned. It was a small mercy, Simon thought, this new world would have destroyed her.

This place wasn't Heaven. He wasn't sure he believed in such a thing any more. God had been just a man, a monster of a man, all along. Things called newspapers and televisions wanted to talk to him, wanted to tell his story but it wasn't a story, it was his life. All the talk of demons, of being monsters down in the dark, of forbidden touches and love and God, those were the stories. Stories were lies, Simon decided. The big people loved stories.

When he had emerged and had been ready to attack the man, but then the angel had appeared. She was so beautiful that at first Simon thought he'd found heaven but soon he realised that wasn't true. He later learned the man was Paul and the angel was just a woman called Claire. He'd never seen a woman before, she was like Sally, or Sally was like her, but only in the same way that he was perhaps like Paul. They weren't the same, not really.

They'd taken Carl away from him when the black men came. He'd hardly noticed, he'd been too awed and confused by everything he had been seeing. Something called sky that seemed to go on forever like a never ending ceiling. They'd taken them to another room, one white and clean and made him do things. At first he'd refused, afraid they would touch him like God had done. He wanted to forget everything he had ever known and ever done, wanted nothing to do with the faith but they kept reminding him, kept asking him questions. They prodded and poked but he refused to let them do anything until he could see Carl again.

He heard words like retardation, deformity and inbreeding. He didn't know what they meant but he knew they were talking about him and Carl. The big people seemed sickened by them and for a moment he had allowed himself to feel the shame and self-loathing God, no, the man, had taught him to feel all his life before burying it deep inside.

Finally, he and Carl were allowed to stay together. They lived in a special place for special people, the big people had said. People that were retarded, people that were deformed, people inbred. People like them. He hated it. The big people had taught him enough to recognise a prison and so he knew that nothing had really changed. He had escaped one prison only to end up in another.

However, Simon had something that they could never take away from him. He had found himself, down in that darkness and clawed his way up to the light. He had freed himself of a lifetime of lies and pain and saved Carl. This prison wasn't so bad. There was no touching, no faith, no Hole.

No God.

Simon had found his own strength, his own courage. It might take forever, but one day Simon knew that when the opportunity came, he'd have the strength to escape again and that this time they'd never go back to a prison. He'd found a new faith, in himself.

* * * * *

Sarah and Jane had just finished unpacking when the door bell rang. They kissed and then Jane skipped to the door. They were so happy to finally be in a new home together. It was a big step but the biggest surprise was yet to come. She fingered the ring in her pocket and stifled a grin. It wasn't the most romantic thing, she supposed, proposing over a takeaway meal in a new, messy house, but it just felt right. There was just an aura about the place. She answered the door.

"Hi, pizza." The delivery boy said, leaning to look into the house. "Just move in did you?"

Jane rummaged around in her pockets for the money. "Yeah. Me and my partner." She rummaged some more, counting out coins in her palm. "Sorry about this."

"Oh no worries. It's £10.98 by the way. Never thought we'd see people move back in here after what happened..."

THE END

