Title: Flashback

Description: A story told in reverse chronological order. Each chapter is a cause for the previous chapter, followed by an effect for subsequent chapters to 'cause'.


Chapter 1: The End

As the skyscraper crumbled in the distance, the sounds of gunshots drowned out the screams John was sure he could hear as he watched people dive in vain hope of survival from the burning building.

Carefully he hoisted the unconscious body of his daughter further up his back and once he was happy she was secured in the harness, he resumed his exodus from the city. People had seen it coming but nobody had expected it would happen so soon, the war to end all wars. It seemed like hours before he turned around again to look back at the burning husk that had been his home and he realised that he'd barely scratched the surface of his escape into the countryside.

Then he saw the light in the sky, the darkness against the orange-lit clouds, a plume of exhaust behind it. All the noise, the terror, everything seemed to fade into the background and an eerie silence came to the fore as the missile disappeared behind the silhouette of the tumbling skyscraper. For a moment it felt like time had stopped, like maybe it wouldn't happen. As if waiting for it, there was a heavy thud as his heart took it's next beat, followed by an almighty roar and John knew, in those final moments as a wall of flame and debris rushed towards him, that the end had come.

Mutually assured destruction.

Chapter 2: Time to Leave

John, cradling Anna limply in his arms, flung himself sidelong out the lobby doors, just as the apartment block's torched upper floors thundered inward.

He staggered away, eyes burning in the sour choking smoke rolling down the building's exterior. Chattering gunfire froze him in his tracks. Gunfire from the apartment block across the common. From the rooftop battery, John realized, shivering again.

He heard the rising whine then. Clearly. Apart from the shriekings behind him of trapped neighbours he'd never now meet. He blinked into the hazy dazzling morning. The cruise missile streaked overhead, veered toward the river. Its engine whine receded. Distantly, anti-aircraft batteries pop-popped at it. John stared after it, toward the city over the river, toward the downtown towers. Soundlessly, Flame bloomed through the top floors of one skyscraper.

John sighed. "Not nuclear yet."

His thoughts snapped to Jane. To their argument at breakfast. She couldn't abandon a hospital full of casualties who couldn't be evacuated. She would be at the hospital, three miles away. Over the river.

John trembled. For an instant he nearly let himself wail. Anna whimpered in his arms. His and Jane's little joy. Perhaps all in the world which might remain very soon of his roller-coaster, wonderful, three years with Jane.

John set Anna down in her Peter Pan blanket on the grassy common. His hands shaking, he slipped off his backpack, pulled out the infant harness, fitted her in.

John kissed Anna's forehead. He tasted smoke. He forced a smile, though she wasn't awake. "We'll go to the country. We'll visit your Gran. Your mum will come, when she can."

Chapter 3: Time to Stay

The strong smell of antiseptic assailed Jane's senses while she treated her patient's oozing wounds. A nurse rushed into the treatment room with another patient in a wheelchair.

"May I leave Mrs. Ackerman with you for now, Doctor? The Emergency room is full, and she shouldn't be left alone in case she takes another seizure. The ambulances are all backed up, with new patients from the target zones. The evacuation ambulances can't get through. The chief of staff is out there now trying to sort them out." The nurse didn't wait for a reply  as she set the wheelchair's brake, and ran out the door.

"Yes of course you can leave Mrs. Ackerman here, thanks so much for asking," Jane called sourly at the nurse's retreating back. The patient in question chuckled.

"I don't think she means to be rude, Doctor. She's just being run off her feet, that's all. The emergency loading bay is a living nightmare. "

Jane heaved a tired sigh. "Yes, I know. This is one of the few treatment rooms that isn't filled to the ceiling with incoming or outgoing patients. I'll give you some Gabapentin. That should calm the spasms for a bit. It was formulated specifically for Epilepsy."

Jane went to the locked wall cabinet and took a tablet from a half full bottle of Gabapentin. She poured a small paper cup of water at the sink, then handed it to Mrs. Ackerman, who downed pill and water in one gulp. Jane headed back to her sedated patient with the oozing wounds, when her cell phone buzzed insistently in her scrub pants pocket. She checked the ID - It was John, at home. She went over to a chair in the corner away from her patients, so she could have a private conversation. She hit the Answer button. John's agitated voice came through loud and clear.

"Jane, the city is being hit with missiles now! The office building two blocks away was hit. I've bundled up Anna. I don't think this building is safe anymore."

"Yes I know, I can hear the whine overhead. You're probably right about our building. I don't imagine any high structure will be safe now that missiles are on the move. Get Anna out of there. See if there's still a train running out to the country. Mum said yesterday that only the cities are being hit for now. It has something to do with saving the farms and crops for food. The conquering army, whoever they may be, will need to be fed. I still don't understand what's going on. How can the world have deteriorated to the point that everybody wants to kill everybody else?"

"I don't know, I really don't. I just know we have to get out of the city. I'm headed to the train station now. I'll wait for you to meet us there."

"I can't leave here, John. We're trying to evacuate, but the outgoing ambulances can't get through. We talked about this at breakfast, when I was called in on my day off. The situation has only gotten worse since then. It'll take several hours before we can even start getting patients out of here. I'll have to stay here. I'll meet you at my parents' place as soon as I can get there."

"Can't you just leave? "

"No I can't, you know that. I'll meet you at Mum and Dad's. Give Anna hugs and kisses for me. I love you John. Always remember that, no matter what happens."

"I love you too, darling. I'll meet you in the country. 'bye."

John hung up, and Jane stood there listening to the dial tone. Several tears broke loose and left a track as they made their way down her cheek.

Chapter 4: Radio Hit

After a long hiss of angry static, the radio that the Major had given him went silent, cutting off the rest of the message. John rubbed his brow, trying to make sense of what he had heard. Would they really do it? Would they really risk the lives of their own troops?

Almost as if in answer to his silent question, a whine filled the air and before he could focus on it the world shook as a missile detonated against the top floors of the neighbouring building. Books toppled from shelves the window glass cracked as the shockwave hit. He'd have to leave his make-shift radio-tower and get out of the building before his was hit. Then he had a terrible thought - what if they'd somehow tracked the fact he was trying to tune in and the missile had been meant for him? He could have got Anna killed!

Oh my god! Anna!

He turned around to find Anna collapse on the ground, a pile of books from a nearby shelf covering her. Desperately he dug her out and checked her over before sighing with relief. She was fine, unconscious, but fine. Hopefully the worst of it would be a concussion. They had to get out of the city, before it got any worse, and if what he'd managed to hear on the radio was even half of what he thought it was, it was going to get worse. There was no time to warn the Major, assuming he and his squad were still alive.

Luckily the phones were still working so after bundling Anna into a simple harness and strapping her to his back, he called the hospital. There'd be no arguing with Jane, he'd already learned that lesson this morning, and there was no point in making her worry, but she needed to know he was getting Anna out of there, that things had escalated.

