Title: Little Angel

Description: Detective Gabriel Creed arrives on the scene of an unusual and apparently impossible suicide. Searching the house, they find a small girl locked in the basement, the apparent victim of the suicide, the suicide apparently being a paedophile. As it turns out, the girl is far more involved than it seems.


Chapter 1: Little Angel

It had been raining again, the fourth day in a row of what was turning out to be a very wet Autumn indeed, when I reached the scene. It was in a fairly rich neighbourhood; you wouldn't expect movie stars to live there but I wasn't surprised to learn that most of the people living in this area were bankers or managers or one of the various other kinds of wanker with more money than they had a right to make. You could see the neighbours' faces pressed against the steamed up glass of their windows as they peered out, eager for a glimpse of something taboo to add colour to their boring lives.

"Creed." The officer on scene nodded in my direction, wiping the rain off his forehead; I tried to remember his name but my mind came up blank. "The body is in the tent."

"Thanks." I replied and walked on through.

The tent had been setup around one of the narrow trees that lines the avenue and I wondered what had happened. Perhaps a stag party gone wrong, a man handcuffed and naked and left to be gutted by some nutjob. I reached the tent, pulled back the flap and nearly lost my lunch.

Inside the tent was a man, hanging from the tree. He hadn't hanged himself though, rather he was hanging like a coat on a hook, a stubby branch thrust through his eye socket. I could almost feel the sensation in my mind of the branch entering his eye and scraping against the back of his skull as it stirred his brains into soup. Kneeling down by the trunk was a squint, examining the scene. I patted him on the shoulder.

"Talk to me."

The squint flinched, startled, and stood up, giving me the once over.

"Well, I've only done a preliminary analysis, but so far everything points to suicide."

"You can't be serious. Who would, who
could
 do this to themselves?"

"No sign of a struggle, no signs that he tripped or was pushed. In fact if you look at the bark on the tree here." He said, indicating a couple of places with a rubber-gloved hand. "He actually gripped the trunk so hard when he pulled himself onto the branch that he damaged his hands. The patterns on the lacerations follow a motion consistent with him pulling himself towards the tree. Unlikely as it is, it appears to be a suicide. He must have had incredible willpower to be able to do it in such a manner but the evidence is there."

"Jesus Christ."

The officer who greeted me ducked his head into the tent. "Creed, we found someone inside the house."

"What, a witness?"

"No, a kid, a little girl down in the basement."

"What!?"

I got up, nodded to the squint to carry on and followed the officer out of the tent. As I walked towards the house, I pulled out my mobile and dialled the station.

"It's Creed, get someone from child protection down here. Yeah, I know, just do it. Looks like our suicide was a kiddie-fiddler. We found a child."

Chapter 2: The House

The inside of the house looked like a tornado had hit it. Twice. Smelled a little like it might have passed through a rubbish dump before it had arrived as well.


The floor, what I could see of it between the piles of clothing and half-empty crisp bags, was a dark hardwood, rosewood maybe. I noticed a few empty bottles of expensive looking beer scattered around the living room before turning to the officer that had escorted me into the house.
Jones? No… Anderson?


“What do you want to see first - the girl or where we found her?” he asked while doing his best to breathe only through his mouth.

The only noise I could hear was the steady
drip drip
of rainwater falling from our coats to the floor. I shrugged out of mine and hung it on a hook next to the door, barely repressing a shudder of revulsion as I was reminded of the man outside.


“Where is she? And please don’t tell me that she’s the source of that God-awful smell.”


“No, sir - that would be the rotting food on the kitchen counter.” He followed my lead and placed his coat on the hook next to mine. “We put her in the study down the hall - I asked Officer Anderson to stay with her while I went to get you.”


Damn, not Anderson then.
He didn’t look like a Jones though.
Wilson?


“Show me the basement.”


The stairs creaked ominously as we descended them, a bare light bulb dangling overhead illuminating the scene. It was hard not to imagine the effect this would have had on the girl; she’d be able to hear him coming and know that there was nowhere to run, nowhere to hide. He’d enter her prison, backlit by that harsh light, probably carrying his belt…


“Creed?” The officer was looking up at me from the bottom of the stairs, one hand on the door knob of an imposing black door.


“Open it,” I said, taking a steady breath to bring my focus back to the task at hand. I pulled a torch out of my pocket and flicked it on as he pushed the door inward.


The floor was bare concrete and I could feel the chill of it through my shoes. The only furnishings were a mattress that looked like it had been rescued from the back alley of a whorehouse and a bucket that smelled like it had served double duty as a toilet.
How long had she been forced to live down here like this?


“That’s it?” I asked, shining my torch into every corner before checking the ceiling for video cameras and finding none. “No toys, no books?”


“She had a doll with her… we let her keep it. I don‘t think we could have gotten it off her with anything less than the jaws of life anyway.”


“I don’t know if that makes me feel better or worse. She talking?”


“Mostly in nods and tears.”


I didn’t have any children of my own, nor much interest in starting a family (I‘d have needed to find a willing woman first, and that was more of a challenge than I was willing to take on at that time anyway), but that didn’t stop my blood from boiling as my gaze travelled the room. What sort of pathetic justifications must he have told himself in order to continue doing this. Whatever they were, they’d obviously not been good enough to stop him from a rather determined suicide.


The sick bastard got off lucky.


“Alright, get a SOCO down here to check for blood, semen, fingerprints, the works.” I paused to study the ceiling again. “Once he’s collected all the evidence he can, I want this place torn apart. If there is any recording equipment in here, I want it found.”


“I’ll check the rest of the house for videotapes and get any computer equipment down to the lab for the boffins to analyze. Anything else?”


“Send a couple of rookies around to the neighbours,” I said, running a hand through hair that was thinner than I cared to think about. “Find out their general impressions of this closet pervert, see if anybody saw the girl arrive, or have any idea who she might be. If he’s had any other guests I want to know their names, where they work, and if they have a record.”


“Got it.”


“Alright.” I heaved a sigh and rolled my neck from left to right and back again, the muscles cracking like muffled gunshots. “Take me to the girl.”

Chapter 3: The Girl

Child services were better at this kind of thing, but I couldn't just hand her over without seeing her first. Talking to her, getting a gauge on her reactions and the way she held herself. All those little pieces of information I needed to build a picture of what happened.

A lot of it wouldn't really have any use, but I tended to do a lot of my work subconsciously, absorbing all the information I can and letting it filter through my head like a sponge while I'm doing real work. It wasn't unheard of for me to place a call to the station at some god awful hour of the morning, those slow processes in the back of my brain suddenly finding something and bringing it to my attention, no matter how deeply asleep.

Today though, I was fully concentrating. There's something about children that sticks like peanut butter to the roof of your mouth, something that wont let go when you know something horrible has happened. There wouldn't be any revelations tonight, so sudden inspiration, I was too focused for that and after seeing this, I'd doubt there'd be much sleep either.

The officer led me out of the damp little basement as quickly as they could and brought back out to the road and nodded towards a patrol car, the first on the scene. I stretched to relieve the tension that had built up over the last twenty minutes and strolled on over as the rain continued to pour on down.

I circled around the car to the passenger seat and nodded to the officer there that he could go. He nodded and trundled off and I couldn't help but notice that he did so with slightly too much eagerness. The uncomfortableness that comes from hanging around victims being all too apparent. I couldn't see the girl's face through the rain pouring down the passenger side window so I opened the door, leaning in to shield her from the rain and give my head a brief respite from the constant pummelling of rain drops.

The thing I'll never forget were those eyes. Red-ringed, children eyes, puffy and bloated from crying but worse than that was what lay behind them. She was dead inside, numb, the bastard had killed the child in her with more thoroughness than he had managed on even himself and I knew in that moment that this child would never recover, would never be the same again. The times of innocence and trust had passed for this little girl and she would never know what it would be like to love any other without the inky black tendrils of fear and distrust clawing at her throat. The suicide had done more than just abuse her, he'd murdered in ways that even the worst psychopath could only dream of. I felt a buzzing in my head like a million hornets attacking an intruder and then silence. As I looked into the girls eyes, I felt calm, my anger subsided. I swallowed hard and forced a smile.

"Hello there, I'm Detective Creed, but you can call me Gabriel if you like."

A small twist of a smile flickered in the corner of her mouth, something between amusement and disgust and then disappeared just as quickly as it had come. She nodded.

She was pale, deathly pale and no wonder. How long had she been in that basement, away from the sun? Her friends? Her parents?

"Do you have a name?"

She nodded and hugged her doll tighter.

"You don't have to tell me if you don't want to, but when you're ready you can whisper it in my ear if you like." I smiled.

She nodded again and leaned closer as I turned my ear towards her. Her breath felt cold and damp in my ear, like the bottom of a well.

"Ariel."

"Well Ariel, we're going to do our very best to find your mummy and daddy. Can you tel-"

"My mummy and daddy went away."

"They went away?"

"They died and went to heaven."

I swallowed again and turned back out to face the rain. The coolness of it felt good on my face. Jesus Christ, what had this girl gone through? I looked back at her and she continued to stare at the rain running down the windscreen, clutching her dolly. Her long blonde hair seemed to glow in the darkness of the police car, the grime of her imprisonment having no effect on her beauty. Her tattered, black and purple dress hung just over her knees but she didn't shiver at all despite the cold. She was a tough one, this girl, and these events had hardened her even more. To lose her parents and then to speak of it so matter-of-factly, she was brave. I had to protect her, I couldn't let her end up in some awful place, not again.

"Don't let them take me away, Gabriel." She whispered quietly, starring out into the rain. "Don't let them take me away."

As i stared up into the rain, I knew I wouldn't. No-one would take her away again.

Chapter 4: The Deal

“You want to do what?”


If I hadn’t been soaking wet, tired, hungry, and completely demoralized by the crime scene I was standing in, I might have found the captain’s expression amusing. At six foot two and flirting with three hundred pounds, Captain Jamie Harris was not the sort of man who was accustomed to being caught off balance by his subordinates. More often than not he seemed to be an immovable mountain and I sometimes caught myself wondering how he ever got to where he was currently standing, since he tended to look like he had always been there.


But my words had succeeded in uprooting him and he was staring at me with wide, unblinking eyes, unsure what to do with his hands.


“I want to take her home with me,” I repeated, still not entirely believing it myself.


“Let me see if I got this right, Creed,” he said, finally stuffing his hands deep into the pockets of his trench coat. “This little girl just spent God knows how long with the pervert on the tree over there, having only God knows what done to her, and now you think I should send her home with a man who is a total stranger to her. You don’t think that would be just a
little
traumatizing for her?”


“She feels safe with me,” I said, looking away and offering an awkward shrug. We were standing in the living room of the house, the smell emanating from the kitchen having been slightly lessened by Officer Anderson opening up every window he could get his hands on. The result was a better smelling, colder home. “I know it’s a little… different, Captain, but -”


“Just a little?” He snorted derisively and shook his head. “Listen, Creed. I know this one has got in your head - hurt kids can do that to anyone, even you. But leave this to Child Services, all right? They know what to do, what to say, all that touchy feely crap you and I will never get. Go home, have a stiff drink, and get some sleep. You’ll feel better in the morning.”


I knew he was right, but I couldn’t let it go. It was like I was being compelled by some unseen force and it wouldn’t stop pushing until Ariel was safe inside my home. I took a deep breath and tried again.


“She doesn’t want to go with them, she wants to go with me. I don’t know, maybe they were the ones that placed her here to begin with. Imagine that, Captain. Leaving her in the care of people who have already failed her?”


“That is merely speculation,” he said but I could tell he was starting to give.


“Come out to the car with me. Have a talk with her, see what she says. Maybe after you see how badly she wants to stay with me you’ll feel better about it.”


Captain Harris stared at me for a moment before dipping his head half an inch in acquiescence. I released a long breath that I hadn’t realized I was holding from my nostrils and nodded back. The rain was still coming down hard but I thought the sky was beginning to lighten to the north.
Maybe it’ll sod off before dinner. Give us all a bloody break.


I led the captain to the patrol car Ariel was holed up in. I noticed that the officer waiting with her was now leaning against the opposite side of the vehicle from her, choosing the company of the rain over the victim’s. It made me angry but I held my tongue, choosing to instead wave him away. I climbed into the backseat with her and the captain eased his girth behind the steering wheel.


“Hi there, darling,” he said through the Plexiglas partition. “My name is Captain Harris, but you can just call me Captain if you like.”


Ariel stared at him before hugging her doll to her chest and turning to me.


“It’s okay,” I told her with a smile. “I know he’s bigger than a house but he’s on your side. He’s here to help you.”


“Watch your tongue,” he muttered in my direction before turning back to the girl. “Listen, darling. I heard you want to go home with Detective Creed here but I’m afraid I can’t allow that. Child Services will take proper care of you and the detective will visit you as often as you like, I’m sure.”


“No.” Her voice was quiet but determined.


“I appreciate that you like this guy, ugly mug and all, but there are certain procedures that have to be followed here,” the captain said, his clenched jaw letting me know his limited patience was wearing thin.


“No!” She shook her head furiously and hugged her doll so tightly that her knuckles went white.


“Captain,” I began but he cut me off.


“This is ridiculous - I’m not taking orders from some little girl,” he said before pausing as his eyes narrowed. He tilted his head to the right, as though he was listening to something, then shook his head. He blinked several times, like he was trying to regain his bearings. “All right, fine. She can go home with you tonight. On a trial basis.”


“She what? I mean, yes sir.” I had no idea what had caused his change of heart but I wasn’t about to question it.


“But here’s the deal,” he continued, still looking at Ariel. “The moment she’s willing to stay with anyone else, you let me know and I’ll send Child Services over to pick her up. If you have any trouble with her, she gets picked up. If even the slightest thing goes wrong, she gets picked up. Got it?”


“Yes sir.”


“Don’t make me regret this Creed,” he muttered before opening his door and returning to the rain. He slammed the door shut, leaving me alone with Ariel. I looked at her with a smile which she didn’t return.


“Looks like it’s just you and me, kiddo,” I said.

