Title: Ten

Description: Ten people are contacted from around the world with an incredible offer. Do they want to play a game?  The rules are simple. Given no information other than their names they have to find and kill each other. (Mature)


Chapter 1: Ten

A foreword

Ten was born of a random thought that just popped into my head with little to no prompting. Instantly, I knew I wanted it to be something special. I wanted to see a piece of collaborative fiction go the distance and actually reach publication, if only via self-publishing.

With that in mind I decided to hold auditions for the main characters so I could put together a killer team of authors that would be able to see this through to the end. We all got to see some great entries and I had some incredibly tough choices to make but eventually I settled on ten authors. I had originally intended on writing on character myself but it turned out that there were so many strong entries I just couldn't bring myself to turn anyone away so I could take on a character.

Anyway, we're finally here, a team assembled and a story being planned and written. It's going to be an exciting adventure, both for us authors working on this and hopefully for you readers as well. I'm looking forwards to this, so I'll end this with a single question.

Do you want to play a game?

Chapter 2: Michelle Sanchez

Though the afternoon was sunny and warm, 7-year-old Brendan Sanchez was inside, watching a sing-song television program from his place kneeling on the brown carpet was that so old and worn that the floor was exposed in places. He looked up from the screen every so often, to cast a worried glance at his mother.

Michelle Sanchez watched her son just as carefully as he watched her, through eyes that were red from rubbing and lack of sleep. In front of her was a chaotic mess of papers, spread out over the kitchen table. She pushed them around anxiously.

"Mommy, can I please go play outside?" Brendan asked for the second time.

Michelle looked up from the piles of bills, about to refuse again, but the innocent sadness in her son's wide blue eyes melted her resolve.

"Okay, Brendan, but please stay in the yard where I can see you."

The boy jumped up and dashed out the back door, abandoning the TV characters, who were still singing their too-cheerful song:

We are going to play a gameThis is how we play a game

Michelle stood and went to look out the window over the kitchen sink, where she had a complete view of the yard. The grass was unruly and too long - the old pushmower had given up and died long ago. At the far end of the yard, the remains of a garden was overgrown with tall weeds. A lone, apparently dead oak tree in the far corner added to the wild mess. Michelle knew she should get back to the pile of bills, but she stayed, unable to turn away from the window, even for a moment.

Instead, she turned on the tap and filled the rusting sink with warm water, tossing in the dishes that were piled on the counter. Absently, she washed and rinsed them, stacking them to dry on a rack beside the sink, all without taking her eyes from the window.

Brendan played in the yard, collecting leaves, squishing ants, all the while humming softly to himself.

Guilt hung heavily on her shoulders. She knew her son was unhappy. She knew she was being paranoid and overprotective, but she did not know how to stop. She couldn't let him leave her sight.

His dirty blond hair shone gold in the sunlight. His sad blue eyes lit up when he found a beetle on the porch.

When he laughed, it reminded her so much of-

A sudden crash and a startled cry jolted Michelle out of her thoughts. Her eyes travelled to her soapy wet hands, then flew instinctively to her son, but he was still playing with his new beetle friend. The cry, she realized, had been her own. On the floor, next to her bare feet, were shards of a plain white ceramic bowl that had slipped off the overcrowded drying rack.

The broken dish was all it took to set her off. A familiar choking feeling swelled in her throat, and she let the tears come. Violent sobs attacked her chest; her breath came in shaky gasps. Michelle ran to her daughter's untouched room and opened the door, breathing in the familiar stale, dusty smell.

It had been three years, and she still had not found the courage to move anything in the room. A thin layer of dust covered everything like a veil. The pale yellow walls were still marked with Sarah's crayons, her bed still exactly the way she had left it that morning. The morning that she didn't come home.

Sarah would be ten now. She
is
ten, Michelle corrected herself. Though the police had long given up, a mother's hope did not die so easily. Her friends and her own mother had told her to let go, but instead she had clung tighter, and eventually stopped responding to their calls and emails altogether. She did not want their pity or their advice. She wanted her daughter.

Though she rarely opened the door to Sarah's bedroom, and almost never entered, Michelle bravely stepped inside. Fresh tears flowed softly. She ran her hand over the pillow. Her fingers came away with a film of dust.

She approached the window slowly and spread the curtains. For the first time in three years, direct sunlight filled the room. Outside, Brendan had moved on to digging in the garden with a faded orange plastic shovel.

Something on the dresser caught Michelle's eye in the new light. Unlike the dusty, muted flavours of the room, it shone stark white, hurting her eyes. Michelle picked up the unmarked envelope and pulled out a letter. Something dropped to the carpet - a photograph. She bent down to pick it up, then gasped, nearly dropping it again.

She stood frozen in her daughter's room for what felt like years, staring at the picture, memorizing every detail.

The soft face of a young girl showed little expression. It was framed by golden hair, hanging straight and longer than Michelle remembered. Calm blue eyes watched some unknown object to the right of the camera. Sarah's face had lost a bit of its youth. Her nose, a bit too long for her face, reminded Michelle of her ex-husband. She wore a too-big white t-shirt, the broad shoulders draped around her thin elbows. The background was a plain concrete wall.

In Sarah's hand was a small white object. It looked hard and glossy and sharp, like a piece of... Michelle frowned, confused.

She glanced compulsively out the window once more to check on her son, before walking back to the kitchen, as if in slow motion. She scanned the room with new worry in her eyes, as if someone or something lurked around the corner.


Michelle knelt cautiously, placing the picture on the floor beside her. Picking up the biggest piece, she began to reconstruct the bowl. Her hands shook, but she was determined. She fit the curved pieces together, struggling to hold them all in place with one hand. When she was finished, some of the finer shards remained on the floor. A sizeable hole remained in the side, the matching piece nowhere to be found.

Michelle stared through the hole, disbelief in her red, watery eyes. It was the exact shape of the piece her daughter held.

Michelle set the broken bowl gently on the floor, then ran back to the bedroom and picked up the letter, skimming the printed words, then re-reading more carefully:

Concerning Ms. Michelle Sanchez,

Do you want to play a game?

1.Godfrey De Vries2.Elias Heikkinen3.Tony Blake4.Kamali Ncube5.Ebisawa Hitomi6.Alexi Bogdanov7.Yu Mei 8.Thiago Torres9.Vahide Younan

Kill these people and your daughter will be returned to you, just as she left.

There was no signature, no identifyable marking of any kind. Questions and emotions exploded in Michelle's mind. What kind of sick joke...?

She dropped the letter onto the already crowded table and hurried to the window, scanning the yard for her child.

Her breath stuck in her chest, heart stopped mid-beat.

Brendan was gone.

Chapter 3: Godfrey De Vries

Godfrey De Vries stared out at the stark, gray waters of the river, which stretched out like a channel of liquid steel below him. It was a long way down, far enough to kill a man. Godfrey's forearms shook as his pallid, spidery fingers clenched the cold metal rail of the bridge. One swift push and he could heave himself over the edge to the end. One jump and it would all be over.

Once, he had been the king of an empire; an empire stronger and more affluent than Rome had ever been. It was an empire called Money, and it had once been a great, powerful thing. But now he was the king of nothing. Nothing but a damp patch of concrete beneath a bridge, which he could not even defend from the rats. The life he led disgusted him.

He looked out over the water at Rotterdam's jagged skyline. A diluted beam of sunlight was attempting, but so far failing, to butt its way through the low-hanging clouds. Trickling through the city streets like ants in an ant farm, Godfrey saw people walking, entering and exiting cars, going about their usual morning routines. It seemed incredible that for most this was just another ordinary, dreary day. There was no life or death struggle secretly warring in their consciousnesses, there was no fear, no desperation.

This morning, Godfrey had been so certain he would jump. He had made up his mind the night before. His life had crumbled, there was nothing left worth living it for. His empire had crumbled, and finally, he had crumbled. He was a loathsome wretch consumed by fear and failure.

But then he had received the note. It had been taped to his jacket when he had awoken this morning. It was just a little, pulpy slip of paper, damp from spending the night with him under the bridge, folded over with his name written on the outside. Inside was typed a brief message, accompanied by a five hundred euro note.

Mr. Godfrey De Vries,     Would you like to play a game?

Michelle Sanchez

Elias Heikkinen

Tony Blake

Kamali Ncube

Ebisawa Hitomi

Alexi Bogdanov

Yu Mei

Thiago Torres

Vahide Younan

Kill these people and all your problems will go away. You will get your money back; you will get your life back.

Godfrey slipped the piece of paper out of his pocket once more and stared at the little, inky letters. How had someone managed to find him and give him this? And why? His bloodshot eyes flicked from the note to the waters of the New Meuse. Was there another way out? A way out that didn't involve jumping?

It was ludicrous. How could he pay attention to something like this? Kill nine people and his problems would go away? It wasn't possible. The rational side of his brain rebelled and caused his hand to crush the note in his fist. But Godfrey knew that the rational side of his brain had burned out weeks ago when he had decided to run. Godfrey knew the rational side of his brain had been extinguished when he had made up his mind to jump this morning.

Godfrey turned over the crumpled note in his hand. Printed on the back was a ten-digit telephone number: a mobile phone number, Godfrey realized. He stared at it. Ten tiny black numbers, as tempting as an oasis in the desert.

Godfrey sneered at himself. He had become such a weak, repulsive man. It was probably just a prank. A joke, or an accident. But then, how did they know his name? Why had they given him five hundred euros?

No, someone was trying to stop him from killing himself. Someone wanted to use him to kill nine other people. And he was supposed to go along with it. He
wanted
 to go along with it. Because even though he had lost everything, he was still afraid to die.

A car rattled noisily by behind him, bringing Godfrey to his senses. He turned away from the rail and back to the torrent of traffic that was streaming by. So many faces, so many people. People he would never know. People who would never mean anything to him. Godfrey squinted around the bridge, half expecting to see someone watching him from across the street. But though cars continued to roar by mere yards from him, no one spared Godfrey a glance.

Godfrey gazed at the telephone number written on the piece of paper in his hand. He knew he wasn't going to jump. He was never going to jump. For several minutes, Godfrey stood there, struggling silently with himself. Then he started to walk toward the metropolitan cluster of Rotterdam. The rational side of his brain had jumped off the bridge that day, but Godfrey De Vries had walked away.

Chapter 4: Elias Heikkinen

 

The computer sat silent in the corner of the room and he carefully avoided looking at the black monitors as he reached over to turn up the radio. Some American "Top Forty" pop hit blasted through the speakers. He attributed the tinny-static quality to the song rather than the system; Elias Heikkinen spared no expense on toys.

The sound served its purpose in drowning out the disconcerting lack of the comforting hum of his computer. It'd been ten days since he'd turned it off and he still wasn't used to the room without it.

Still, he smirked, it had been worth it. To get that smug bastard's name into the UN's Counter Terrorism Committee's registry was worth every minute of lost uptime. According to his notebook another twelve days and he would be clear to boot up again. It was all about following the steps; if he followed the list, stuck to the plan, and made sure he'd cleaned up any trace he was fine. Only those who made mistakes got caught, and Elias didn't make mistakes.

It had been a perfect exploit. He'd called into various low level offices, pretending to be a systems analyst who was having trouble accessing the mainframe, or some variation of that. Non-technical people tended to tune out when someone started talking above their heads. He'd been passed around to several different people until, with a stroke of good fortune, one cheerful sounding secretary had given him what he needed, the root password. It wasn't her fault he was so charming, or that her boss left a list of codes next to his computer.

He flipped through a well used copy of "The Art of Deception". It had been brand new when he'd ordered online, now the corners of the cover were ragged and the spine was cracked. It was almost time to buy a third copy, the first was long since disintegrated. Elias began sorting out what he'd need and how long it would take to establish a new set of dox. The more layers the better.

A quick glance at the clock told him he was going to be late for school if he didn't get going. 
Faari
 would not like it if he was late again, something that would've been much easier if he had been allowed to get his A1 license. Elias rolled his eyes and tucked the book into his jacket pocket before rolling off the bed, careful not to knock any of his prepay cellphones onto the floor.

His grandfather had some strange ideas about motorized vehicles, even mopeds and motorbikes. As long as Elias had lived with him he'd been forced to walk, at least out of sight of the house, before getting into a car or catching a bus. Superstitious old man, the line of logic between assuming that he would die in a car accident just because his parents had was faulty at best.

He walked down the alley towards the bus stop that was conveniently located just out of view for any of the windows in the flat. The bus was late given the number of people that were gathered at the stop waiting. He jostled his way into the line, ignoring the glares of his fellow travelers and pulled his book out to read while he waited.

Instead of his bookmark an envelope was tucked between the pages. He pulled out the stack of paper inside and read the note paper-clipped to the front.

Would you like to play a game?1.    Michelle Sanchez2.    Godfrey De Vries3.    Ebisawa Hitome4.    Tony Blake5.    Kamali Ncube6.    Alexi Bogdanov7.    Yu Mei 8.    Thiago Torres9.    Vahide Younan

Kill these people and we will ensure all traces are erased.

His hands shook as he flipped through the sheets. It would look like jibberish to anyone else, but Elias recognized them as the UN CTC server logs. His handiwork, which he'd taken proper steps to erase, was highlighted.

Chapter 5: Tony Blake

It had been a normal day, the day his wife had been taken from him.

And that was possibly the thing that got to him the most. He hadn't been given a chance to tell her just how much he loved her. He had hardly talked to her that morning as they got ready for work, going their own ways. A quick peck on the cheek and a grunted "good morning" had been the only thing he'd had to offer her that day.

And then the London bombs went off.

She disappeared.

Every day since, he cursed himself for not telling her how much she meant to him every day they spent together.

Occasionally he found himself wondering if she had run away from him - there had been no body to bury. There was no reason he could think of for her to have wanted to run away, unless she had been silently miserable in their marriage. But every memory of her that he had, she was smiling, endlessly smiling.

"Karen," he whispered, staring at her picture on his desk. There was a piece of paper slipped inside the frame, sitting at the bottom of the picture just to the right of her neck. It was just a shopping list. The one she had been planning to pick up when she got home that day and go to the supermarket with.

But it had been the last thing she had ever written.

He stared at her handwriting for a moment, the round, bubbly letters blurring for a second from keeping his eyes open, fixed on one thing for too long.

"Tony, the Sarge wants that report on the drug dealer on his desk by the end of the day," a woman's voice snapped somewhere above him. He blinked and looked up at the police officer.

"I know, I know," he muttered, leaning back in his chair. Brushing a hand back through his short, dark hair with a sigh, he looked from the woman whose name he could barely remember to the computer screen in front of him.

"Then get on with it. Staring at her picture isn't gonna bring her back," her tone softened a little. Nodding, Tony waved her away, not looking at her as he opened the file on the drug dealer they'd been chasing for months.

But something else distracted him. There hadn't been anything in his ‘in' tray a moment ago. Yet now, there was a plain brown envelope sitting in the black plastic tray, his name scrawled on the front in black biro.

With a frown, he reached over and picked it up, glancing around to see who might have put it there. Aside from two junior officers standing by the water cooler discussing something, there wasn't anyone else standing up. He looked back at the envelope in his hands, turning it over to open it.

The single sheet of paper inside bore words that he could never have prepared himself for.

Would you like to play a game?

Michelle Sanchez

Godfrey De Vries

Elias Heikkinen

Kamali Ncube

Ebisawa Hitomi

Alexi Bogdanov

Yu Mei

Thiago Torres

Vahide Younan

Kill these people, and we can return your wife to you. The proof will be with you soon.

 

He knew he should hand the letter over to someone who could tell him if this was real, or dismiss the whole idea as a sick joke being played on him by someone he might have irritated - though who he could have annoyed enough to provoke this kind of reaction was beyond him.

But he didn't do either. Instead, he re-read the letter, feeling his frown deepen and finally slid it into his pocket, doing his best to ignore it. The thought of what this "game" entailed made him feel sick. He briefly considered pretending he had a migraine and clocking off early, but decided it would be better to get on with his paper work and attempt to keep his mind off the letter til he got home.

It was a futile effort, however. He had been distracted before he had read the letter. Now he was even more sidetracked, his mind spinning. His wife's wide smile caught his eye again and he gazed at her face, considering the letter once more.

His silent contemplation was shattered as the phone beside him rang shrilly, screaming at him to pick up. The sudden noise made Tony jump. Taking a calming breath, he picked up the phone.

"Hello?" he managed to make his voice even as he spoke.

"Tony!" a woman's voice cried on the other end of the phone. At first, he didn't recognise the person crying his name. "Tony!" And then...

"Karen?" he asked incredulously, his eyes widening.

"Yeah, it's me, Tony, it's Karen," she whimpered, "listen to me, I don't have much time, okay?" she was trying to sound composed, but he could hear her straining against the urge to cry, "You got your letter, right? The one with a list of names on?"

"Yeah. It says I have to-" Karen cut him off.

"Kill them, I know. It's true. If you win the game, they'll let me go," there was a pause and a muffled silence, "I have to go, I'm on a pay phone and they won't give me any more money. I love you, Tony, I love you," she told him, her tone taking on a desperate edge.

"I love you too, baby, I really-" but he was cut off again as the line went dead. After a stunned second, he pulled the receiver away from his ear and stared at it in shock.

For so long, for such a painfully long time, he had believed Karen had been killed on the underground with the rest of the bomb victims.

He didn't know what to do, or say, or think. If that had really been her on the phone...

This... "game". He pulled the letter out again and read the list of names. Nine people. Nine lives. 
Kill these people, and we can return your wife to you.
 Nine lives in return for one.

Swallowing hard, Tony folded the letter back up and returned it to his pocket.

Noticing his hand was shaking slightly, he curled his fingers into a fist, closing his eyes for a long moment. He didn't even know if this was real - it could have been a talented voice actor on the phone. He wasn't even sure if he wanted it to be real; he was no killer. Karen's smile lingered in his mind, the image stronger than usual, the need to hold her once again so enticing - enticing enough to force him to consider the letter seriously.

 

Chapter 6: Kamali Ncube

Kamali woke and showered. The heat irritated the puckered lines across her chest and she instinctively blocked the water with one arm as she had done every morning for the last three months. As she stood, dripping absently before the mirror beaded with fog, one hand lifted to trace the dark corona of her lower eyelid. She resembled an Amazon, straight-backed and fiercely magnificent in the steam. The scar tissue across her chest might have been the proof of a jungle cat's fury or the tribal markings of a Queen. The figure Kamali saw, she thought, looked like a boy.

It had been nine months since Kamali was diagnosed with breast cancer. Nine months since she had been informed of her body's betrayal in that hot little office by that sharp little man. She remembered the way Makenna's hand, oddly, had slackened in Kamali's grip when they had heard.

There had been months of second opinions, of diligent self research. Kamali had thrown her tainted body at drug trials in the United States, hounded doctors in London, Berlin and Helsinki. At last, filled with radioactive sludge and prismed through with experimental rays, they had all acknowledged defeat and recommended late-stage surgical removal of the problem areas.

It was weakness, Kamali believed, that had caused her cancer. She demanded a militaristic perfection from her mind, ruthlessly devouring her schooling and her later competition in the field. Each structure she designed was constructed with unflinching bluntness, flaunting its strength and the moral character of its steel heart. There was no room for weaknesses. Critics said her work lacked humanity, lacked that humbling effect of connection with its inhabitants. Kamali didn't care. She designed the headquarters of global conglomerates who believed they would survive Armageddon. She did not design for the weak little people inside.

Kamali was disgusted that her body could allow this weakness to inhabit it. It was weakness of the flesh, the weakness of idle tissues given over to the disease coiling within her like a snake. It was this inner vulnerability that was the reason Makenna left, Kamali knew.

She dressed, buttoning up with mechanized fingers, and itemized herself in the lit vanity. The dark smoothness of her skin glowed but her eyes appeared hard and bitter, the color of naked coffee beans.

She picked up her mail from the box downstairs and returned with one letter pinched in her hand, which she tossed into the basket on the kitchen island. Later she would open it, taking in only the first line and the fact that there was a list below that. She would sigh and commit the letter to the trash bin, writing it off as a blatant ploy to get her excited for a corporate meet and greet which she would forget to mention to her supervisor later that afternoon. Kamali Ncube readied herself for another futile day.

Chapter 7: Ebisawa Hitomi

Translucent smoke wafted from the smouldering tip of her cigarette, tracing lazy curves in the air. As they slowly expanded and eventually evaporated above her head she felt a call to chase them, chase their pirouetting forms down, down. But she knew it would come to nothing: the dragon's smoke is not from tobacco.


She looked up from the table, brown eyes half closed by lids heavy from tiredness, from boredom, from depression, from the habit, from whatever excuse worked best at the time.


And who was to judge which excuse worked best but Hitomi herself?


Yes, that would be Ebisawa Hitomi, the shell of a pop idol whose fame was now locked away in jewel cases and jukeboxes. She had had a different name back then, something upbeat, catchy, and inspired by the
kawaii
-culture of the time.


But life wasn’t the sugar-coated pop song she once sang, that one-hit wonder scant years ago. Then again, sugar wasn’t what she was craving.


The tip of the cigarette glowed brightly as she inhaled, her eyes fluttered closed.


But they quickly reopened, wide as she could pry them, as a singular sound amid the din of the dark café assaulted her senses.


It was her song.


Hitomi looked around the small café, hoping someone would recognize her as the singer on the radio. Even in the soft light they must know her face, right? True, she wasn’t the young and energetic girl who peered, smiling, from glossy magazine covers for the short stretch of national fame, but she couldn’t have changed that much. Could she?


No-one seemed to notice.


Her shoulders slumped, her eyes closed once more, and she took another drag of her cigarette. Clasping it delicately between two nail-painted fingers she removed it from her mouth, the barest tinge of rouge where her lips had met it. With that she began to hum.


She pictured herself on stage, hair tied back in dark ponytails, costume cut short to flaunt and tease. It brought a smile to her lipsticked lips.


That smile, though, soon became a frown. She couldn’t hit that last note, couldn’t stretch her voice enough to reach it. She merely croaked.


And then she cried.


And still no-one seemed to notice.


She sat like this at the booth, head in her hands, sobbing, forgotten cigarette spilling ashes onto her shoulder as it burned.


“
Gomen, okyaku-sama
.” Excuse me, ma’am. One of the waitresses had stopped at Hitomi’s table.


The former singer looked up as the girl spoke to her, hoping that she had found a solitary fan. She managed to elicit a single “
Hai
?”


“You have a message from a man in another booth,” she said, producing a simple square envelope.


“Who?” Hitomi replied, bringing the cigarette back to her lips. Did it really matter, though? Fan mail is fan mail no matter who penned it, and even a nasty letter would be a welcome reminder that she was still remembered.


“In the booth behind me.” She took a step sideways so that Hitomi could see past her, into the booth beyond.


“There’s no-one there.”


“Oh?” The waitress replied. Stealing a quick glance to the empty booth she continued, “He must have left already.”


“Mm.”


With that, the waitress turned and left, leaving Hitomi alone with the envelope. She opened the triangular flap at the top and withdrew the plain paper, creases pressed smooth where it had been folded. It rustled softly as she made it blossom in her hands.


Would you like to play a game?1.    Michelle Sanchez2.    Godfrey De Vries3.    Elias Heikkinen4.    Tony Blake5.    Kamali Ncube6.    Alexi Bogdanov7.    Yu Mei8.    Thiago Torres9.    Vahide YounanKill these people and we can restore your stardom, and bring you what you truly crave. Keep listening for the proof.


Her song was still playing, or was it replaying? Hitomi took another glance at the note, reading it through. At the end was scribbled a few chords, written in a mimicry of her own shorthand.


A chill shot through her spine.


As the song – her song – reached the chorus she knew what the chords were for: they were for her. She followed them along faithfully, her humming harmonizing with her recorded-self’s melody.


She reached the point she had faltered before, that point she had failed to hit the climactic note. The chord on the note was a drop down, though, something she knew she could manage.


And she did.


The chill became a rush, and her giddiness caused laughter to erupt from her lungs. She snubbed the butt of her spent cigarette in the ashtray, the last tendrils of smoke floating lazily in the air. A second fit of laughter caused her to collapse in her booth, leaving her lying across the old cushions that were chic back when she was still singing.


For once, the café patrons noticed, but for once Hitomi didn’t care. Lying in the booth, staring at the ceiling, she couldn't see the stares they stole. Cackling with manic laughter she couldn't hear their hushed voices whispering. She could see only the words of the note, and hear only her triumphant chord.

W
e can restore your stardom, and bring you what you truly crave.

With her confidence back, Ebisawa Hitomi felt ready to wrestle with dragons.

But first, she'd have to chase one.

 

Chapter 8: Alexi Bogdanov

No amazement, no awe, no applause - instead, no pay and the tacit threat of a law suit.

Alexi dug a thick rectangle of folded paper out of his pocket and examined it. It was a good trick. A good finale. The paper opened out, expanding like a parachute. It could be done in one fast movement, the spring released, the paper unfolding like great wings over the heads of the audience, filling the air with glittering sequins. It worked well with small groups.

Not today.

He knew something was wrong at once. He could feel it. The pressure of the spring in his palm was subtly different. It felt looser than it should, not so elastic. But in the time it took him to realize this, his arm was already swinging back, his mouth still full of patter he no longer heard. There was no unfolding, no whisper of the thin paper as it expanded dark pleats like the petals of a strange and wonderful flower. Instead, Alexi watched in horror as the dense-packed paper flew out of his hand as hard and fast as a stone.

It hurtled across the room and hit little Misha in her left eye. Misha, three years old, opened her mouth and set up a deafening howl. Misha was Kolya’s little sister. It was Kolya’s party. Alexi had potentially cost the daughter of his employer the use of an eye. If ever an employer had an excuse not to pay...well, Alexi hadn’t waited to be told. He’d gathered up his props, horribly aware of the accusing, belligerent glares directed at his back. Misha was taken off to be comforted, her eye bathed, the other children enticed into another room with the promise of candy and cakes. On his way out, after trying to apologize, Alexi noticed the cards he’d left out in the hope of future engagements were gone from the table in the hall. In the bin, he thought. Thrown out, like me.

He fingered the spring again. There was no repairing it. He tossed it into the back of his van and closed the door, leaned on it a moment and sighed. The sigh should have released him, unwound the tense muscles of his back and shoulders but he was too wound-up. All the time now he felt pressured, coiled and compressed from outside and in. Clock’s ticking. Tick-tock tick-tock, where are you Alexi? What have you done? Where is your life? Where are you going?

 “Nowhere,” he said aloud to the night. “Nowhere.”

Someone passed by at the end of the drive, whistling. Alexi recognized the tune:

Bright face, round face, beautiful young maiden stood there near the small valley, and broke twigs of juniper ...

It lifted the weight off his shoulders a little, eased the beginnings of a pounding headache. He sang the first two lines as he got into his van.

Someone had left an envelope on the passenger seat. Immediately Alexi thought of law-suits, though it was impossible – there hadn’t been time. I locked the van. How? Maybe they’d felt badly, left payment for him anyway. Yes – again how? He knew he’d locked the van because he’d just opened it, using the key. It was a plain brown envelope. There was no name on it. It wasn’t heavy either, maybe just one sheet of paper inside. Alexi tore it open and switched on the van’s interior light, unfolding the paper on the steering wheel.

Alexi Bogdanov,

Would you like to play a game?

Godfrey De Vries

Elias Heikkinen

Tony Blake

Kamali Ncube

Ebisawa Hitomi

Michelle Sanchez

Yu Mei

Thiago Torres

Vahide Younan

Kill these people and we can give you your dream.

It was a joke. A bad joke. Still he shivered. Someone had gone to lengths to achieve it, breaking into his locked van – locking it again so he never would have known it had been touched if not for the envelope.

Kill. Really kill? He couldn’t do it. We can give you your dream. Someone who knew him. Someone who knew his ambitions, his hopes. Someone I know, Alexi thought, someone I know is not my friend – is my enemy.

Or...or...can give you your dream.

Chapter 9: Thiago Torres

Thiago picked an oily rag up from the workbench and carefully cleaned the head of the hammer, then the smooth wooden shaft, meticulously rubbing away every last droplet of blood.  Some, furthest along the shaft, had already dried and he had to press down with his thumbnail to scrape it away, but he left none of it behind.  When he was satisfied that the hammer was clean he hung it on the tool-board on the wall, in between the saw whose teeth had never tasted wood and the sledgehammer that had never struck stone.  He gazed at his tools for a few moments wondering at the odd emptiness he felt somewhere inside him, like a constant hunger, then sighed, clicked the electric light off, and walked outside.

He closed the garage up, locking and padlocking the door, and walked several steps across thin, yellow grass to the front door.  He tried the handle and it opened, swinging silently into a short, narrow, terracotta-tiled hallway.  The kitchen door at the end was open, and he could see his son's brown legs under the kitchen table.

"João!" he called out, closing the door behind him.  "How many times do I have to tell you to keep the doors locked when you're in the house?"

There was the soft slap of bare feet hitting the tiled floor from the kitchen and then João scrambled down the hall and leapt at Thiago, his grin as wide as his face, his arms open wide for a hug.  Thiago caught him up, swung him round, and then put him back down on the ground again.  João was so light, too light for a nine-year old.  He never seemed to put any weight on at all.

"It's fine, daddy," he said, "everyone here knows me.  No-one's going to steal anything from us."

That wasn't what worried him, thought Thiago, tousling his son's hair and finding a smile forcing the corners of his mouth up despite the day he'd had.  What worried him was his boss deciding that Thiago's loyalty could be better ensured if he
adopted
João.

"What did you do at work today, daddy?"  João led him into the kitchen where the afternoon sun was coming through the window.  Paper was stacked neatly on the table with some soft grey pencils next to it; João had been drawing.  Thiago picked the top picture up while he tried to think what to tell João today.  The truth -- that he had driven thirty miles with three other men to break kneecaps, smash teeth and tie piano wire around arms and legs -- was not something he ever wanted his son to know about.  His boss, Vitargo, styled himself as a local businessman, which everyone knew meant drug baron, and Thiago's job was to see that his boss stayed in business, which meant stamping on the fingers of anyone trying to haul themselves up to Vitargo's level.  Or as this time, leaving them in the bay as fish food.

"I was looking at air conditioners," he said slowly, admiring João's sketch of the trees visible from the window.  "Miguel wants to start a repair business, but I don't think it's such a good idea."  He picked the next piece of paper up and stared at it.

Would you like to play a game?
it began, and then a list of names appeared beneath it:

Michelle Sanchez

Godfrey De Vries

Elias Heikkinen

Tony Blake

Kamali Ncube

Ebisawa Hitomi

Alexi Bogdanov

Yu Mei

Vahide Younan

Kill these people and we will give you and your son a new life in the country of your choosing.  To help you believe us, Vitargo's next job will involve a woman called Luiza.

"Where did you get this?" asked Thiago turning the page over.  It was blank on the other side.

"It came in the post this morning," said João barely glancing at it.  "It was pushed under the door.  It's funny.  I'd like to play that game.  Then we could go to America and own a big car and eat hamburgers."

"Was there an envelope?  Did you open my post?"

João looked up properly now, surprised at the anger in his father's voice.

"No daddy, it was just like that, only folded in half."

"You shouldn't have read it." Thiago folded it along the crease line, then again, and slipped it into the back pocket of his jeans.  "It's just a silly joke, probably Miguel.  I'll have words with him."

He left the kitchen and went upstairs to change his clothes, but the last two lines of the letter kept replaying themselves in his head.  A new life for him and his son, a way to get away from Vitargo and his nasty, brutish, bullying life.  It had to be Miguel posting this, as only he knew how much Thiago hated being a hired thug.  He took his shirt off, and then his mobile phone rang.  He closed the bedroom door to make sure that João couldn't overhear and answered it.  It was Vitargo.

"Don't get too comfortable," said Vitargo, his voice thick and glutinous as though he were eating a mouthful of porridge.  "Luiza Calliope has just paid me a visit threatening me.  You and Miguel can get over there this evening and show her the error of her ways." Vitargo hung up without waiting for a response.

Thiago sat down slowly on the bed, the letter already in his hand again and open, his eyes looking at the last line on the page:
Vitargo's next job will involve a woman called Luiza
.

So was this letter a genuine offer?

Chapter 10: Yu Mei

Mei crumpled up the piece of paper in her hands before returning her attention to the glass wall in front of her. It was covered mainly with the pictures of half dressed young girls, a bloody gash across their throats. Her eyes danced from one picture to the next, anger building up inside her as she did. "Seventeen," she counted. "Seventeen young girls our unsub has..." She bit her tongue, an attempt to stop herself from saying the sick things the unknown subject had done to those young girls.

In the bitter seven months her team had spent profiling this unsub they had concluded three things. One was that he or she preferred to go after younger victims, typically young girls around the ages of eight and nine. From there they came to a conclusion that their unsub chose these younger victims as they were easier for him to overtake. 

Two was the way the victims had been found. They all wore half torn clothing, marks around their hands indicating they had been forcibly held down.

Three was that their unsub was arrogant, confident and very clever. They had received several letters that stated who the next victim was to be, where the murder would occur and at what time. The unsub had disguised his handwriting remarkably well, leading her and her team to think their unsub was a woman at one point and a man at another. In all his letters the unsub boasted, mocking their slow response to the victim's final resting place. The unsub had also attached insults to his letters, insults that were written in black ink on a yellow piece of sticky paper directly in front of Mei.   

"Really had you going didn’t I”

“I can’t believe you tackled her to the ground!”

“This game never gets old does it detective?”

Mei growled at the written ridicules of the “Nian Killer.” The Nian was a monster that lived in the mountains and oceans close to what was now Shanghai. The creature lurked in the dark and attacked and devoured any unlucky human that was caught off guard. But it had a favorable taste to the flesh of young children.

“Wouldn’t you be scared to find out I am “The Nian” monster detective?”

“Why are you doing this?” It was a question directed to no one in particular. Mei removed the picture of another man their unsub had framed before opening the crumpled up piece of paper in her hands.

“The case is going cold Mei. The search for the Nian will be postponed until further notice.” –Officer Lee

“That’s it? We’re just going to give up and leave this case behind?” Mei sighed as she remembered her outburst from earlier that day to her boss. She insisted that her team and her  be given a few more weeks to find the Nian. Sadly their efforts had been futile as the boss declared the search was a waste of money and manpower. He had been especially mad at all their accusations towards a number of people. Many times they had almost arrested a man or woman they assumed was the killer and many times he had to make a personal apology to the city for arresting the wrong suspect. 

Mei folded the piece of paper before tossing it in the wastebasket. Job-wise they had been ordered off the case. However she had a personal grudge against the Nian. A grudge that began three weeks ago when her team had found the body of a young girl in an alleyway in one of the city's neighborhoods. Mei reached out to a picture on the far side of the wall, pulling it close to reveal a young man and woman cheek to cheek with a beaming little girl with neat shoulder length hair. She touched the picture of the little girl, her eyes watering as she recalled what she had to tell her team that day. 

"Detective...do you know this girl?"

"That's...that's Mia."

"Mia?"

"My goddaughter."
 

It was from that point on that the case had become personal to Mei. The death of her godchild was hard enough. The faces of her parents were ones that would forever be burned into her mind. Her team and her boss had told her she did not have to continue the case, that a vacation from the case was something that would do her health good. She politely refused both offers, insisting that her personal feelings would not cloud her judgment. However she developed a superhuman will to solve the case, staying up days at a time to find any clues, any possible leads that would lead her closer to finding the Nian, often without her team's assistance.

She folded the picture and placed it in her left pants pocket, shutting off the lights to her office before closing the door. She made her way out of the office, waving to a fellow officer at the front desk. As she took her jacket off a hanger and began wrapping it around her, the officer at the desk suddenly spoke up, waving a brown parcel in one hand.

“Detective! There was a message dropped off for you a few minutes ago.”

“Doh Je” Thank you. Yu Mei swallowed up the frustration inside her and smiled at officer Lee before heading out the door. She shivered a bit at the sudden cold breeze in the normally warm nights. She made her way down the streets until she got to a sleek black convertible. As she fumbled through her other pocket for the keys, she couldn’t help but wonder what the parcel contained. She sat herself down on the soft seat of her car before giving it a good look. “No retuning address huh?”

She opened the brown envelope and removed a piece of paper on it.

Would you like to play a game?

1.
       
Michelle Sanchez

2.
       
Godfrey De Vries

3.
       
Elias Heikkinen

4.
       
Tony Blake

5.
       
Kamali Ncube

6.
       
Ebisawa Hitomi

7.
       
Alexi Bogdanov

8.
       
Vahide Younan

9.      Thiago Torres

Kill these people and the “Nian” will be handed over to you. As proof we have evidence of the Nian and what he may look like.

"Is this some kind of joke?" 
Mei shook her head in disbelief, involuntarily mouthing “impossible” as the next page and a half droned on about the exploits of the Nian’s murders, how and when they were executed. She stared hard at the picture of a Caucasian man in his early forties or late thirties, his eyes covered by sunglasses and a small outline of stubble present on his face. 

"The game never gets boring and every time I play it I feel excited and -no pun intended- giddy as a school girl," Mei's eyes widened as she read the journal entry on a torn piece of lined paper. "I have to say China is a country filled with the most beautiful little girls...but I have to admit this girl was my favourite." A single tear slid down Mei's face as she flipped the page over to see a taped on picture of Mia, standing beside two of her friends at the park. The picture had been taken only three hours before her death. "Mia was my most enjoyable victory and I will carry the image of her beautiful face around in my mind forever and-"

Mei stopped, tossing the piece of paper aside before lowering her head onto the wheel, her face wrinkled into an ugly frown. Weeks upon weeks of research and her team had only made a profile of their unsub. Whoever the sender of the package was he had found a picture of the Nian. He didn't even seem to have noticed his own picture being taken!

"But then again, it could all be some kind of sick trick the Nian has devised." Mei pondered the idea for a moment before taking another look at the list of people. Nine lives. Nine people somewhere in the world she barely knew would have to die. But nine was certainly smaller than the number of current and future victims the Nian was sure to go after. Mei wiped her eyes and placed the parcel, the letter and the Nian's letter on the driver's seat before starting her car's engines. As she began backing up out of the parking lot she slowly lifted her foot from the gas pedal, simultaneously hitting the brakes.

She ran her hands through her hair and turned back to the parcel at the ground. She shook her head and growled at an unprofessional, even criminal thought that was brewing in her head. She had the resources to put this plan into fruition. All she had to do was convince her team to do a little research on these people, adding bits of white lies to lower their suspicions. The only problem to this would be the sender of the information on the "Nian." If it had been a true force for the common good, wouldn't they have given her the information and told them who they were? Usually staying anonymous was a sign they had a secret that they did not want anyone else to know. Could she really trust someone that didn't trust her back.

"Maybe Al can help me prove if this information isn't some kind of sick trick." Alfred Hsing was an old friend of hers from a high school, a fellow officer in her unit and a registered hacker. Maybe he could shed some light on whether the trail she was following wasn't some sort of false document to occupy her time or lead her astray, especially since murder may be something she would have to do. As she pulled out of the parking lot and onto the road she couldn't help clinging to a disturbing hope of the evidence being true, a step closer to catching the "Nian."



 

Chapter 11: Vahide Younan

Reddish-brown lines covered the walls of the room like a spider's web. A single bulb hung from the center of the ceiling, casting a dirty, dim light. There was a cracked mirror covered in spit that lent efficacy to the stark foulness of the room, but the scent of floral perfume made it livable.

The desk below the mirror was littered with lipsticks and blush, several eyelash curlers strewn here and there, a bowl of potpourri that had been spilled long ago, and a few water-stained notes from Aslan.

Most of the notes were really just threats. Vahide was not worried about them. It was not because she knew the threats were empty--in fact, she knew they were not--but whatever Aslan did to her was fair penance. Most of her life had been earned and most of it was bad. She was not an angel and had no delusions about it.

Vahide sat on the stool in front of her small vanity, leaning to one side in order to see her reflection past the dried spit. Carefully, she applied the red lipstick that was the trademark of herself and her peers in this town. It was a mark that said to those around her: I am a prostitute, you may use and abuse me and I will thank you for it. To her it was no better than sporting the mark of the beast, but it was a necessary thing.

Her make-up applied, she took one last look in the mirror and knew business would be good today. That counted for something. She stood up, her eyes on herself, said,
Allah seni kahretsin
, and then spit.

Aslan was across the street, already gesturing for her to come to him, when she stepped into the bright morning sun. Vahide had barely stepped onto the street when he began gesturing toward a car parked a short walk away. It was a nice car: shiny black, no older than a few years. She noted it and kept walking toward Aslan, but his eyes grew large and threatening, his gesturing toward the car more emphatic. She turned and began walking toward the car.

 

"Vahide!" Aslan called from behind her. She turned to him.

"Special customer! Make him happy!"

Vahide nodded, proceeded toward the car. The passenger door opened as she approached it. "Get in," a voice from within called.

"I was going to," she said to the voice and then climed in.

The driver was a pudgy Englishman, thin-rimmed glasses with gold colored frames. Vahide had a liking for gold--the glasses were at least plated with it, if not made of solid gold.

The man was wearing a button-up shirt with bright and colorful patterns and khaki shorts. She knew what to expect. His type came around once in a while, usually bringing with them a pocket full of money and peculiar requests. Not that she would see any of that money, anyways. Aslan took payments in advance for her. It had come to a point where she did not even know how much of her money she was getting.

"Where will we be going?" Vahide asked. Instead of answering, the man put the car in gear and pulled into the street. It wasn't until they'd traveled a few blocks that he answered.

"Does it matter to you?" he finally said.

"No, sir. I was only asking."

He looked her up and down as if to appraise her, never veering off course. "Call me Miller. Save your sirs for Aslan."

"Miller. That is a very manly name."

"Save your brown-nosing for Aslan, too."

"I am sorry. I did not mean to offend you."

Miller grunted. Vahide shifted in her seat. The car drove on. By the time they'd crossed the town line, Vahide was visually nervous.

"What can I do for you, Miller?"

"This looks familiar," he said, ignoring her question. He pulled off the road and parked behind a boulder a short distance from the shoulder. "Well, here we are. What do you think?" he asked.

"It is a nice place," Vahide said, the quiver in her voice apparent.

"Does your lap speak back to you?"

"I'm sorry?" She turned to look at him.

"That's better. If you are speaking to me, then look at me. That is what we Englishmen call tact. You should learn it."

"I'm sorry."

His pudgy face, initially friendly, gave way to something else. Vahide wanted terribly to look away. Aslan seemed to know this man, though. That meant she should be safe. Safe from death, anyways; Aslan had sent her to many men who got their kicks by hitting women.

"Chin up. Let me take a look at you," he said.

She complied. He studied her face with an intensity she did not like one bit.

"Hard to believe you're a murdered," he said flatly, and all of a sudden the circumstances changed.

It was not Vahide's expression which gave away the sudden change--she held it stolidly--but the twitch of her eyebrow did not go unnoticed. Millers eyes darted slightly up and then back down. He smiled and let out a curious chortle.

"No need to panic, my girl. I am not an officer. Moreover, I know that it wasn't your fault. Aslan put you up to it." He paused, as if waiting for her response to that. A moment later he started again. "In fact, I know he has put you up to most everything you've done for quite a while. It's wrong, you know."

"I--" Vahide started, but the words choked themselves off. Her face began to flish.

"I am certainly no Ghandi, but what he does to you and the other girls is going too far. I'll say it and say it loudly: I hate the bastard. Don't you think what he has done is as wrong as I do?"

"I do," she managed.

"Good!" he slapped the dashboard, causing her to flinch. "I have a proposition for you. It's simple, really. You kill a few people for me--bad people, of course--and I will make Aslan pay. I'll even let you help me do it. When it's all done, you will get a new life in a new place. You can put this era of your life behind you. Wherever you want. Whatever you want."

"I--I can't."

"Oh, bollocks. Of course you can. You've killed before. Not to uncovered any skeletons here, but last time it was an innocent person. Maybe you didn't want to, maybe you'd never do it again--I don't know. But I am asking you to take out the scum of the earth. I am asking you to take out Aslan, nine times over. These people are just Aslans with different faces.

Vahide stared into her lap, intermittently watching Miller through her peripheral vision. She flinched when he placed a small stack of cash on her lap, in front of her face. The stack was small, but comparable to two months of what Aslan might give her if she'd been good. On top of the cash was a small note, and on the note were written nine names:

   1. Godfrey De Vries

   2. Elias Heikkinen

   3. Tony Blake

   4. Kamali Ncube

   5. Ebisawa Hitomi

   6. Alexi Bogdanov

   7. Mei Yu

   8. Thiago Torres

   9. Michelle Sanchez

"I have a flight out of this rat's nest shortly. I need your answer. This is real, darling. It's now or never."

"He'll kill me if--"

"Aslan won't do anything to you. It'll be taken care of."

Vahide lifted the money from her lap and counted it, then turned to look at Miller who wore an expression of impatience. "This an advance payment?"

"Will you do it or not?"

Vahide's profession--she dared to call it that sometimes--made her inherently skeptical of large sums of money, but why would someone say these things? Could Aslan be testing her loyalty? Certainly that was not the answer. Aslan would never put this much money in her lap, even if he'd meant to take it away shortly thereafter. Would he? Another possible answer floated just beyond her grasp but was forgotten a moment later.

"I will," Vahide said, then held her breathe and waited to be killed by Aslan's agent.

"Very good. Find them, kill them. Simple."

Vahide exhaled sharply. Miller was staring at her. After a moment of silence between them, Vahide said, "Where can I--"

"You will get no help from me. That goes against the rules. That money is not an advance. An advance would also go against the rules. To the best of my knowledge, the people on that list are still breathing. You will get nothing until they are not. For now, you still are what you are. The money is for this. I do hope you're good," Miller said, and then began removing his belt.

Vahide did not need another reminder of why she had agreed to this ridiculous plan--what she stood to gain, what she could be rid of if the proposal was legit--but that did not matter. For the time, she still was what she was.

Chapter 12: Michelle - Three Against the World

"Ouch!"

"Oh my God, I'm so sorry!" Michelle whipped out the cloth that hung from her apron and blotted the coffee that she had dumped on the customer's lap. He stood, swatting at the wet black stain on his jeans, looking annoyed.

"So, so sorry," Michelle muttered, her tired gray eyes glued to the floor as she expertly wiped the coffee from the cracked plastic seat cover and the table. "I can get you an ice pack or-"

He slapped some bills onto the table. "No, that will be all, thank you."

Michelle picked up the money and held it out to him. "It's on the house. Again, so sorry."  

But the man just left the restaurant. Michelle stood there, frozen, her hand stretched out like a branch on an old dead tree that was too tired to stand any longer.

A hand squeezed her shoulder: Natalie. "You gonna be okay?" 

Michelle nodded. Cracked a pitiful attempt at a smile. It had been a long time since things had been okay. Michelle couldn't remember what okay felt like. Wasn't sure it had ever existed.

Brendan was tugging on her apron. She almost always took him to work these days. It was no environment for raising an impressionable seven-year-old boy, with truckers swearing and spitting and trying to grab her, but she had no other choice. She couldn't leave him alone at home, and she couldn't afford - or bear the thought of trusting - a babysitter. The scare on Saturday afternoon had turned out to be nothing - Brendan had found a wandering stray cat and followed it down the street. Still, it had almost killed her, reliving the fear, the sheer panic. She couldn't let it happen again.

"Mommy, I want a gumball, can I have a quarter?"

Michelle gave him one of the bills she still held in her hand and told him to bring it to Natalie and exchange it for coins. She tousled his unruly blond hair as he thanked her, feeling a thread of energy flow into her veins. Just touching him, feeling the solidness of his little body, gave her the strength to keep going, to keep trudging through this thick, black, waist-deep sludge that was her life - or what was left of it. Brendan was all she had. It was just the two of them, against the world.
Three of us,
she corrected, suddenly swallowing a mountain of grief and pain. Even for a moment, how could she forget? Sarah was out there.

The photo was bent and stained already, though it had only been a couple days since she had found the letter. It was always with her, stuffed in her pocket, her sock, her purse, or her bra, and she took it out frequently, never fully convinced it was real. 

She wanted to believe that she knew her own daughter's face, but reason and doubt and fear plagued her mind like blood-sucking parasites. It might not be Sarah. It
couldn't
be.

To allow herself even a sliver of hope was asking too much. Her heart had been broken a million times over. It would not survive another fall.

But if it
is
her...

Even if it was Sarah, who would believe her? Certainly not her friends, the police, or even her own mother - she was the crazy woman who had lost her daughter and refused to let her go. 

"So sad," they would say behind her back. "She probably found that picture in a magazine or something." They would be understanding and patronizing, at first: "Of course it's her, Michelle. When she first disappeared, you called us five times a week, telling us you had seen her face in the supermarket..." But then it would get old, and they would tell her to let go, tell her she wasn't coming back, tell her to see a therapist.

And even if the picture
was
real, she had no other information. Where would she even start to look? And even if she
found
Sarah, would she still be alive?

The note said that she'd be returned, just as she left.

Michelle dismissed the thought, disgusted. She did not believe in this kind of thing. The note was the part that made her doubt the authenticity of the picture that rested in the pocket of her apron. It sounded like a chain letter: "Send this to twenty people and you will meet your true love within the week. Throw it out and you will have bad luck for a year."

Sending a letter to twenty people, however, is very different than killing nine people. The more she thought about it, the sillier it seemed. Finding nine people given only their names, killing them somehow - it was not a funny joke. The idea was absurd. Probably some kind of advertising scheme. They were always coming up with new and stupid ways to trap innocent people and take their money. Brendan had probably found it in the mail and left it in his sister's room. Sarah's story and picture had been splashed on the news, and some creeps had found - probably photoshopped - a picture...

"Can I get some more coffee?" A man in a ripped t-shirt held up his empty mug.

Michelle poured carefully this time, pushing the thoughts away. Maybe she was crazy. Maybe it was time to let go. To finally sever the last thread of hope to which she clung so desperately. Sarah would have wanted...

She couldn't finish the thought. Thinking of her daughter in the past tense - Michelle simply couldn't do it.

She sat down at a dirty booth, resting her coffee pot on the table. She pulled out the photo, spreading it smooth with her thumb. Her eyes raked every detail. Every crack in the concrete wall, every smudge of dirt under the girl's fingernails. Sarah's nose still looked just like the one on her ex-husband, Karl, and the stubbornness in her eyes reminded Michelle of her own mother. She tried to bend back the top left corner, which had begun to curl, and saw a mark she hadn't noticed before. There was graffiti or something on the wall in the background. Michelle bent closer, trying to make it out. 

"Ma'am, can you quit cryin' and bring me my burger? Extra mayo and cheese, hold the tomato?" A corpulent man with only one suspender and a couple teeth missing wiggled his eyebrows at her impatiently.

Michelle pocketed the photo and rubbed her eyes, surprised by dampness - tears that had escaped without her notice. She picked up her coffee pot with a long, weary sigh and looked out the window behind Mr. Extra Mayo. It faced the remains of an old park - a slide, two broken seesaws, and a swingset with one good swing. Brendan sat on the swing, not bothering to push off, scratching at the dirt with his shoe.

"Ma'am? My burger?"

Chapter 13: Godfrey De Vries - The Number

Godfrey swilled the black depths of his coffee morosely. The spoon chinked against the cup like a set of wind chimes tinkling in the breeze. An annoyingly happy song played bouncily over the radio. Godfrey De Vries thought about death.

He wasn't quite sure why he hadn't jumped. Cowardice, he supposed. He had become such a spineless worm; the type of man he wouldn't have associated with before. Godfrey swirled the spoon round and round, creating a tiny lukewarm whirlpool. A drop of coffee leaped out of the cup and splashed onto the crinkled piece of paper lying on the table next to it. It seeped slowly into the paper, highlighting the name of Tony Blake with a dark sepia stain. A list of nine unknown names had stopped him from killing himself. An offer to commit murder had saved his life.

Godfrey took a sip of the coffee. It was bitter and tepid and he gagged on it momentarily, but he forced himself to swallow it anyway. He gazed down at the list lying on the table next to his saucer, then rubbed his red-rimmed eyes with his thumb and forefinger. He hadn't killed himself, God knew why, but now what? He wasn't about to track down and murder nine people from a list of random names and hope all his problems would magically vanish.

You can't get your old life back
, Godfrey chided himself. 
You threw it all away for a little extra cash in your pocket. And you buried that life forever when you ran away.

Godfrey's face slumped tiredly into his hands. Why had he run? He could have stuck out the rest of his sentence and continued an ordinary life afterward. He could have 
had
 a life, rather than this miserable, cowardly existence he now endured day after day.

Maybe. But Godfrey didn't know what a few more years in that prison would have done to him. It may have been minimum security, but something had happened to him in that prison. Something within him had snapped.

The unavoidable dreariness of every day, the unbearable blankness of the ever-present walls had begun to eat away at him. He couldn't stand it; he felt claustrophobic. Finally, when the chance had come, Godfrey had taken it. He had run and run and they had never found him. But every day he regretted it. Every day he wished he had stayed and borne out his sentence. Because surely even being locked in a cage was better than this? But every day he lacked the courage to do anything about it. He skulked miserably through the streets of Rotterdam, constantly disgusted by who he had become.

The waitress had returned from the back room to wipe down the tables of the empty cafe. Godfrey watched her. She was pretty and young with blonde hair and sharp features. What he wouldn't give for a life like hers. Even cleaning the tables of a grubby cafe like this, a profession Godfrey would have recoiled from in his previous life, seemed positively enviable now. The woman noticed him watching her and hastened over to check on him.

Godfrey gestured to his drink. "Your coffee is terrible," he said scathingly. "I can't drink the rest of this."

The waitress, looking taken aback, started to apologize, but Godfrey just reached into his wallet and smoothed ten euros out on the tabletop. With a somewhat confused look on her face, the woman took the money and the coffee and hurried off to bring him change. Godfrey sighed. He so missed the old days. He had once been a connoisseur of the best hotels and the finest wines, splurging on expensive luxuries simply because he could. Such stupid, unimportant things, he now realized, but they had made everything worth it. Now a cheap coffee from a dingy downtown cafe seemed like an unnecessary indulgence.

Godfrey looked down at the table. It was now clear apart from the little scrap of paper in front of him. Slowly Godfrey reached forward and turned the paper over. There it was, printed neatly in the top left corner. The phone number.

Godfrey ran a hand through his graying hair. For two days it seemed, he had been staring at that number. He had long since committed it to memory, but he always went back to the note to read and reread it.

It's time to make a choice though
, Godfrey thought to himself. It had been two days. If he wasn't going to jump, he had to determine what he was going to do.

The waitress was coming back now. She laid his change out on the table in front of Godfrey.

"Is there anything else I can do for you?" she asked warily, as though expecting another scornful remark.

"Yes actually," said Godfrey, gathering up his change. He handed it back to her, not so much as a tip but as payment for his next favor. "Do you happen to have a phone I could use?"

Chapter 14: Elias Heikkinen - False Alarms

When the bus arrived Elias had to concentrate to stop his hands from shaking as he passed over his fare. He made his way quickly to the back of the bus and sat there, recounting the steps he had taken, trying to remember whether there was a single point in which he might have slipped up. No, it was impossible. Everything had been perfect, as it always was. The phones were old and second-hand with fresh SIMs sent to an anonymous PO box registered in a fake name. When he’d called he had disguised his voice, managed to get his call passed around the office so it looked like an internal call. The connection to their network was equally perfect and untraceable. Even with those erased logs he was invisible.

Except... these people, the ones behind the letter. They’d found him, they got into his house unnoticed and past all his paranoid measures of detecting if his room had been disturbed. If they could trace him back, get this far, well, so could someone else. He was so sure though, so certain that he’d taken every precaution possible, made every bluff and double-bluff, laid every false trail for the impossible eventuality of someone actually being able to even start a trace. They couldn’t have found him.

Unless...

At the next stop Elias got off the bus and walked the rest of the way back home. He peered in through the windows and could see the snoozing form of his grandfather, sleeping quietly in his chair. Silently, he let himself back in. Creeping back up to his room, he took out a toolkit from beneath his bed and began dismantling his computer. In took him only a few minutes to find, but he knew what to look for. Inside, someone had rigged a tiny device onto his network card. From it trailed cables to other parts of his system. It must have been some kind of computer by itself, taking in the output of his graphics card, his keyboard, his network connection and piggybacking them on his own Internet connection to destinations unknown. With this, anyone could have seen what he was doing, watching play by play, as he broke his way into the servers of the CTC and had his wicked way with them. They’d have his passwords, they’d know what servers he had connected to; all his secret hideaways on the Internet. How long had this been here? He had no way of knowing. He wanted to tear the thing out and stamp on it, crush it into a million pieces. How dare someone come in here, into his inner sanctum and violate him so thoroughly and completely!

No, instead he carefully rebuilt his machine and turned it on. As it booted into his custom distro of Linux, he took out another, older computer from under his bed, a last generation laptop with a PCMCIA network card. He booted that up and put it in promiscuous mode, allowing him to analyse all the traffic on his network, whether it was meant for his laptop or not. This way, he’d be able to pick up where the bug was sending all the information and track these people down. Elias Heikkinen wasn’t going to go down without a fight. Adrenaline pumped through him, making time seem to slow down as he watched the packet stream for information. Naturally, the data was encrypted but it couldn’t hide the IP address. He did a search for it and found to his horror it was a TOR entry node, a computer part of a vast, public, encrypted and heavily anonymised network of computers that allowed people to anonymously connect to other machines across the Internet. There was no way he could ever find out the real destination. He slammed the lid of the laptop down in frustration.

Just then, the doorbell rang. He heard his grandfather downstairs wake up with a start and fumble with the door, then heard the mumbling of voices too quiet to make out.

“Elias!”

Damn it!
Elias thought.

“Elias! I know you’re up there! It’s the police, they want to talk to you!”

Oh crap!

Panicking, Elias quickly grabbed the letter, the logs and shoved them into his shredder. He pulled the plug on his computer, slid off the sidepanel and quickly unscrewed the harddrives, slamming them into his homemade scrubbers, USB docking stations modified to overwrite disks with random garbage over and over again, so that no-one could find what had been on them. He did the  same to his laptop, running a program on it to wipe it clean and then headed down stairs, confident that there was nothing on him they could use.

An officer was waiting by the front door, talking quietly to his grandfather, when Elias came down, he looked up.

“Elias Heikkinen?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Shouldn’t you be at school right now?”

“Yes, sir. I, I forgot something, I needed to come back and get it.”

“Don’t worry, Mr. Heikkinen, this isn’t about that, it’s not the police’s job to make sure kids stay at school. In fact, it is lucky you didn’t, there was an incident with the bus. There was an accident.”

The blood drained out of Elias’ face. “An.. accident?”

“The driver lost control of the bus and flipped it over, luckily no-one was badly injured but we’ve been checking into things to make sure. You were seen leaving the bus just before the accident, is that correct?”

“What? Are you saying this might have been deliberate?”

“I’m not saying anything at this point Mr. Heikkinen, I’m just asking some routine questions. Your Student ID card was found at the scene of the incident, not being present there was concern you may have been injured and wandered off. Now, could you answer the question. Did you exit the bus before the Kamppi stop?”

“Umm, yes, I did.”

“Okay, that’s all. Here’s your card.” The policeman said, handing it over. “Thank you both for your time.”

Elias smiled weakly and closed the door. He looked at the card, he must have dropped it on the bus, the card slipping out of his books from it’s customary position as a second bookmark. He couldn’t help but feel like somebody was out to get him. After all, it would make sense. The spying, the threat, the list of people. They said it was a game. Would it be that much of a stretch to imagine that his name might be on a list somewhere, that someone might have decided to play and that he could be their first target? Before he could worry further his grandfather clipped him on the back of the head.

“Forgotten something, hmm?” His grandfather said, eyeing Elias suspiciously. “Why don’t you tell me what you were really doing?”

Chapter 15: Tony Blake - Hard to Forget

 

That note, that list of names, that sick offer to play an even sicker game that held nine unknown lives at stake. It was proving almost impossible for Tony to push it all to the back of his mind. Even stretched out on the sofa watching a thought provoking film like Fight Club, or concentrating hard at work, it was always there. He had long since disproved the theory "out of sight, out of mind" - his mind was more crowded with things that were out of sight than ever.

He'd thought maybe the reason it was bugging him was because it had distracted him from ordering his desk right after he was done using it, or perhaps because the list was written in a seemingly random order. So, he had folded it away in his empty diary, shoved it in a drawer and ordered his desk. Then rewritten the list in alphabetical order by last name, and put it away again.

And it was still bothering him.

Perhaps it was because it lacked a better place to keep it?

He hauled himself up off the sofa, away from the reruns of Everybody Loves Raymond, and wandered lethargically into his study. Pulling an empty folder from the bottom drawer of his desk, he labeled it ‘The Game', reminding himself of David Fincher's film that went by the same title. Shaking himself as he remembered the events of the film, he slotted the note into a plastic wallet and filed it away on the shelf above the desk. He stared at it for a moment. The black folder, instead of blending in with the rest of the dull files, seemed to stand out. Putting it down to it being a new addition to the row of folders, he shook his head and dismissed it as his mind playing tricks.

For a moment, he was satisfied that the note would stop bothering him, now that it was reordered and filed away the way he liked things to be ordered and filed away.

But as he turned away to return to his television, he realized it wouldn't stop annoying him for a very long time. It had dawned on him that the obsessive compulsive lifestyle he had given himself, the solid routine he had created to make up for Karen's absence... it wasn't as solid as he thought - in fact, it was frighteningly fragile, and always had been.

And that realization, along with the possibility of being reunited with Karen, had been the big fat brick through the window behind which he had been living his life for the last five years or so.

On impulse, he pulled the file down again and flipped it open on the desk. He tore the note out of the plastic wallet and stared at the names on the list for a moment, frozen.

1.       
Michelle Sanchez 
    Bogdanov, Alexi

2.       Godfrey De Vries      De Vries, Godfrey  

3.       
Elias Heikkinen
          Heikkinen, Elias

4.       Kamali Ncube            Hitomi, Ebisawa

5.       Ebisawa Hitomi         Mei, Yu

6.       Alexi Bogdanov         Ncube, Kamali

7.       Yu Mei                           Sanchez, Michelle

8.       Thiago Torres            Torres, Thiago

9.       Vahide Younan          Younan, Vahide

Part of him wanted to burn the letter and forget about it, to dismiss it all as a hoax -a cruel one at that - and to repair his broken window. Yet there was another part of him that wanted to venture out and walk through the broken glass, exploring the possibility this ‘game' offered him. He could always retreat and repair that window if he didn't like what he found, after all.

Surprised by himself, his eyes widened and he dropped the note back into the folder with a disgusted grunt. He snapped the folder closed as though it contained some kind of dangerous insect.

After half a moment's hesitation, he swept the folder off the desk and into the waste basket.

It was time to finally let go. The note, the hoax, the so called game had made him see this. 

Chapter 16: Ebisawa Hitomi - a Dragon's Defeat

"F--- off,
bakayarō
."

Her soft voice filled the silence of the room, made all the much smaller by the encroaching clutter. The once daintily patterned wallpaper now looked nothing more than sombre, pale and grey like the dust-laden miscellanea stacked high against the walls. Everything seemed to slump; everything was depressed. Including her.

Nobody answered her command, no-one was there to obey it.

Reality had come crashing down in the aftermath of her high. The flame of triumph was snuffed faster than that of the dragon she had chased, and left no hint of smoke to even remind her of its passing.

Lying in a heap she belittled that hopeful little girl.

"
Baka
! How could you think something like that?"

Only silence answered her, the room stoic though unaddressed.

She remembered the simple note that had a started it all, a compilation of meaningless names followed by a simple chord. It was her shorthand, true, but that, too, was meaningless.

Hitomi voiced her bitterness over and over.

"Any musician knows how to make a chord. That's all it was: a chord!"

She found something grasped in her hand, what it was was unimportant, and threw it at one of the few patches of bare wall. It struck with a heavy thud, loud compared to Hitomi's raspy profanities, and left a mushrooming cloud of dust where it fell.

"A trick of one of a back-up singer, you old fool," she wheezed from the tatami, the sole mat in her apartment. "Belittling you, scorning you, teasing and taunting you. She's probably still singing, too, insignificant as she is."

The former singer spat before letting the room sit in silence once more.

In the semi-darkness a vision of the note floated back once more, a ghostly spectre that hung before her eyes no matter where she looked or how tightly she shut them.  She imagined that murderers felt the same sensation, the faces of their victims presenting themselves in lucid daydreams. Hitomi imagined that was the reason so many bodies were found brutally disfigured despite all the taboos regarding the desecration of corpses. That note had wanted her to become a murderess, even though it was an outright lie. So she'd killed it. If she were in the mood, if she were riding atop a sinuous dragon, she might laugh at the irony.

After she'd fallen out of the bout of giddiness brought on by the promises of the note and her encounter with the dragon, once she had fallen into that depression and realized her folly, she had burned the note. And she had burned it slowly, savouring it.

In fact, she had rolled it with tobacco, lit it, and smoked it, breathing in the lies it told about murdering falsified names and promises of fame.

A knock shattered the stiff silence of the room.

Hitomi heard, but did nothing. She did not jump, shake, or shudder. She did not widen her eyes or cry out in surprise. She did not even make to stand and open the door.

The muffled knock resounded again.

This time the woman merely rolled over, eyes now lazily focused on the offending door.

The knock did not sound a third time, but a noise from the hall still reached Hitomi's ears.

"Ebisawa Hitomi? I have something for you."

Low, male, and speaking with American English.

She remained silent, head spinning even from the minor change in orientation.

The voice from outside continued to speak, sounding as if his lips were a mere whisper from the door frame. "I'll just leave it at the door, then."

This was followed by the muffled thump of a dropped package, and then footsteps fading down the hallway.

A part of her wanted to open the door and see what had been left behind, but another knew that the only thing waiting for her was vertigo. So she lay there, chest expanding outward and slowly contracting back as she measured her breaths, an attempt to exert some form of control over her body.

The breaths became a metronome, measuring the silence into bars and stanzas. Hitomi drifted somewhere close to sleep, and filled the silence with unheard notes, melodies and harmonies and counter-melodies stretching through the still air. But inside her there was a new fire, the memories of the note inhaled as burning smoke. Her breathing became heavy, and she imagined she now vented that smoke trapped inside.

Grunting in discomfort, Hitomi spasmed in her sleep, her movements sending puffs of dust into the air.

If her music were real, then she'd be dancing. Without it, her convulsions were reminiscent of death throes, the dust like thick smoke from a doused fire.

When the movement stopped and the cloud of dust settled atop her she seemed at last defeated. But that was not the case. She merely slumbered, a dusty camouflage hiding her form amid her treasures.

Now, she was the dragon.

Chapter 17: Kamali Ncube - Family

Kamali ran a hand through the wooly lamb curls on her scalp. Her hair had only recently returned and intended to make up for lost time in the ferocity of its renewed grip and the resoluteness of its coil. Her fingers caught on something and she picked the small, squirming knot out of her hair. Reflexively, Kamali crushed the small insect and wiped its brittle shell off on the leg of her shorts.

The houses around her, each one a clone of a single, cheap, boxlike original, lay in crooked rows on the yellow soil. Scrub bushes like the tufts of fur on a haphazardly shaved cat quivered in a hot breeze. Kamali paused to listen to the chatter of guests invited to the
braai
, the barbecue behind her parents' tiny home.

She heard the scuffle of small stones and turned just as a whirl of dust and sunburnt skin came around the corner. The boy squealed, "Aunt Kamali!" and cuffed her around the legs. He shoved back the brim of the bushhat which had fallen forward against his nose and grinned up at his aunt. "You are late! The
boerewors
are almost all gone!"

He stuck his hand into the slack of Kamali's grip and pulled her back around the small house. The yard, usually a square of scrub and yellow dust, was roiling with the sounds and smells of a dozen adults and children. Kamali's father waved from behind a screen of restless smoke and went back to turning the crispy
boerewor
sausages and corn. Kamali's guide scrambled away after a clump of jabbering children.

 Kamali navigated through the crowd towards her father, easing swiftly past the threat of touch and conversation.

"
Ko, vemakore,
" her father said in his native Shona. "Long time no see." He plucked a sausage from the grill with his tongs and placed it on a square of paper. He rolled it, giving it a thick wrapping to prevent accidental burns, and held the food towards his daughter. She refused. The smoke boiling off the open pit and grill was bleeding into Kamali's lungs and made her stomach turn.

"You are not vegetarian now?" he asked.

"Where is my mother?"

He waved towards the house with his tongs.

"
Mai?
" Kamali called. "Mother?" The inside of the house was cool and dim. Thin rugs of varying colors and designs lay like patchwork on the ground.

Kamali's mother came scurrying from the other room, hissing like a startled bird, "Shush! The child is finally sleeping!" She smiled and bade her daughter to sit on a rug. "You came," she said, pleased. "
Wakadini zvako? 
How are you?"

Kamali straightened the line of her shorts. After a moment she said, "It failed me again." The chill of the room pecked along her arm, raising tiny hairs as if, for a moment, Kamali were afraid of attack. "The latest regimen has shown no improvement."

Suddenly Kamali found herself enclosed within the warmth of her mother's arms. An ambush -- a hug. Instinctively she stiffened and, after the required time, pushed the woman away. Her mother's eyes were damp.

"I have instructed my doctor on further experimental trials to pursue," she reassured her. Kamali perceived the line of water skirting the edge of her mother's deep laugh lines. "I assumed you would want to know," she said.

A light rustling, a cough, followed by a high, lonely wail signaled the baby's awakening.

Kamali's mother stood, leaning against the wall for support. She asked her daughter to wait for her and left to reassure the child. When she returned she found her daughter had gone. 

Chapter 18: Thiago Torres - Doubts

Miguel drove, because he said that he got car-sick when he had to be a passenger.  His car, a buggy in fact, ran on ethanol, was open at the sides and had a canvas roof.  When it rained it felt like they were camping, cowering from the elements, but when it was a sultry late afternoon like now, with the sun slowly setting behind them and the road in good condition (for this part of São Pedro, anyway), it was a leisurely way to drive.  With the wind ruffling his hair, and his sunglasses perched on his nose, Thiago relaxed and tried not to think about where they were going.

"Luiza, huh?"  Miguel had other ideas.  "You reckon she was really threatening the boss?"

"Did you give my son this?"  Thiago pulled the folded paper out of his jeans pocket and thrust it in front of Miguel's face.  Miguel batted it away with one hand, concentrating on the empty road ahead.

"Give him what?  Paper?  Thia, why would I bother, he always has a stack of paper by his side."

"What's written on the paper, Miguel.  Did you write it?"

"Thia, if you tell me what's on this piece of paper that makes it so special, then maybe I can tell you, but I'm betting already that the answer's no.  The only thing I've written lately is the names of the little doggies on the bet slip, and that just seems to scare the little bas--"

"It's a list of names, Miguel."

"Sounds like maybe something the boss would give you.  Is Luiza on there?"

Thiago paused, and reread the letter.  "She's mentioned, but only in passing."

"Thia, you're making no sense.  I'll look at your paper when we stop, but for now, let's just get to where we're going and do what we're doing, and be done with it all."

Thiago sighed, folded the paper again and slipped it back in his pocket.  He wasn't sure he wanted Miguel to see it now, not now that it seemed he hadn't posted it.  The letter was a private thing, he was sure of that.  He still wasn't sure what to make of it, but it seemed foolish to throw a chance away before he'd even decided if he wanted to take it.  The road stretched on, still deserted apart from Miguel's buggy, and the breeze in his face was pleasant.

"So, Luiza," Miguel was not so easily distracted from work.  "What do you want to do to her?"

"Nothing," muttered Thiago, and his words were pulled away by the breeze so that Miguel couldn't hear them.  "I'd rather not do this at all."

Chapter 19: Alexi Bogdanov 2

“What is this?”

“What?” Alexi said. Marta sighed. She’d been standing in the doorway but now came into the room and sat down beside him on the sofa. She placed a piece of paper on his lap.

“This,” she said, smoothing the folds. Her manner was that of a long-suffering servant passing a gift to an idiot king. Alexi saw his own name and the names that followed and felt suddenly wooden. A tree in a gale, unable to move yet swayed and shaken, trembling. He’d tried hard to forget. He’d almost succeeded.

“It’s nothing,” he said. “Where…where did you get it?” His voice sounded tense and harsh, though he tried to feign nonchalance.

Marta saw, he could tell. She’d asked the question idly, but now wanted to know. She reached over, grabbed the remote and switched off the TV. “Alexi?” She stared at him. “It was in your pocket. I was going to wash your jacket. It’s a joke? Is it part of a trick?” She tucked a hank of her thick fair hair behind one ear, as she always did when she was being serious. When she smiled and laughed she let it flop forward, so that the strands flew. In bed, her hair hung down and brushed his lips. He was always breathing in the scent of it; vanilla like ice-cream.

“A joke.”

“Not a funny one,” she said slowly, studying him, reading him. She read too much. Alexi couldn’t meet her gaze and turned away, reaching for the remote as an excuse.

“No. It’s nothing. Forget it.” He let the paper fall to the floor. Marta said nothing. She sat back and made no effort to stop him switching the TV back on. Two cops were arguing on the program. Alexi couldn’t follow. They seemed to be speaking another language. To his right the piece of paper glowed as white as a patch of frost in the sun and covered more of the carpet than was surely possible. As if it was expanding, spreading imperceptibly, growing larger and larger and more and more prominent. To his left Marta glowered and he felt the pressure of her silent disapproval like a weight on his chest. “It’s nothing,” he said again. The cops on the screen were red in the face, yelling and gesturing. It was a car they were arguing about – a car that had been used in a robbery. He’d watched the whole show but couldn’t remember any of it. Did the thieves rob a bank? Or was it a jewelry store? Any moment now, any moment, Alexi thought. Marta could only keep quiet for so long. The cops vanished. A character Alexi didn’t recall having seen before was on a train. Maybe she was one of the thieves as she was anxious, kept glancing over her shoulder, peeking into a bag she was holding tight to her chest, looking at her watch. He felt a great deal of sympathy for her plight.

“Alexi…” Marta said. “Come on.”

“Are you staying here tonight?” Alexi asked.

“I was going to. Don’t change the subject.”

“I wasn’t.”

“You’re a bad liar Alexi. Tell me!”

“It’s nothing. Really it’s nothing.”

“You’ll tell me. What is it? It’s weird - a note, telling you to kill people. It can’t be real!”

“I don’t know.”

“Where did you get it?”

“I found it,” he said, giving in. He knew Marta. She’d keep on and keep on. Maybe you wanted her to find it, an inner voice told him. You left it in your pocket. You know what she’s like. No, he’d wanted…what he’d really wanted, was to forget all about it. Oh yes? The voice said sarcastically. So why didn’t you throw it away?

“Found it where?”

“It was in the van. On the seat.”

“So it didn’t come through the post?”

“No.” Alexi turned to her. He switched off the TV. “It was in my van. My locked van.”

“Locked?” she said, frowning. “Chyort voz’mi. Is it real then?”

“I don’t know.”

“What are you going to do?”

“What do you think?”

“I don’t know.”

Later, Marta whispered in his ear. Warm ice-cream. Two words. “I know.”

Chapter 20: Yu Mei- An Eye For An Eye

"Mei are you sure you are alright?"

Mei's concentration on the computer screen faltered as a voice beckoned her. She turned around slowly, sitting face to face with a weary looking  man in his late thirties and arms crossed. With black hair streaked with gray and a sleepy look on his face, Alfred Hsing wasn't the ideal image most people had when it came to a skilled hacker. However underneath this tired looking man was a computer expert and a compassionate member of her team.

I'm fine Al," Mei insisted. The man raised an eyebrow and shook his head in disbelief. "Really Al, I just needed to do a little research for the case."

Alfred blinked twice saying, "A little? Mei you've been here for almost two hours doing research for a case that the guys up there declared cold." His eyes suddenly drifted to a lump inside Mei's jacket. "You haven't taken your jacket off yet either."

At the mention of her jacket, Mei tightened up inside. Instinctively her hands closed around the parcel  hidden inside her jacket. Before she had arrived she concluded that this piece of evidence was one better left known to herself. She was aware of her friend's respectful nature so she had hoped he wouldn't ask why she was searching for people with various criminal records in numerous countries. "It's-it's kind of cold in your apartment," she snapped. "You should go turn up the heater or something."

Mei mentally slapped herself as she realized the ridiculous excuse she had tried to use on someone who was older,  more experienced than her and a human lie detector. "Really Mei, I expect better from you." he said quietly, taking a step towards her as she rose from her seat.

"I have to go-"

"Hold on a minute!" Mei flinched and almost fell backwards as Alfred took hold of her arm. She struggled for a brief moment before an all too familiar look that practically silenced most people appeared on Alfred's face.

"Listen to me Mei," he began. "I'm not sure what you're doing or why. What I do know is that whatever happens doesn't just concern you...look I'm not supposed to say this but regardless of what the higher ups say, we're all with you on finding Mia's killer. But you've got to tell us what's going on Mei. You're not acting like yourself anymore. The team, heck
I'm
, worried about you." 

The two stared at each other for a moment before Alfred released his grip on Mei's arm. She brushed past him quickly and muttered a quick "thank you" before approaching the door. As she gripped the handle, she began to contemplate telling Alfred about the letter, it's message and it's picture.
It would sure be easier with their help,
she thought. She turned a bit before stopping, arms closed tightly around the parcel as another voice whispered
The Nian has to pay Mei. An eye for an eye right? 

"Mei-" Alfred's voice was cut off as Mei quickly exited the door, slamming it closed on her way out.

Chapter 21: Vahide Younan : A Dilemma

Having done what she knew best, Vahide leaned back in the luxurious seat, her hands a little sticky and her mind scrambled. She glanced over at Miller and could not help but think about what he was offering her. A life free from Aslan. A life where she did not have to worry about where her next meal would come from, or the next beating. That in itself was a pleasurable thought. But she wasn't certain about what she would have to do in exchange for her freedom.

MURDER. It wasn't like she hadn't killed someone before. But that was only so she could save her own life from Aslan. She couldn't help thinking about the people whose names were on the crumpled list sitting on the dashboard, along with the cash. They had names, they had a life. Even though Miller had assured her that it would be like killing off Aslan nine times, she still wasn't convinced.

"I am not paying you to think, girl. I'm not done with you yet. Give me a hand, will you?"

Vahide wordlessly moved her left hand to Miller's lap and started working on him, as if on auto-pilot. Her mind continued its journey down the maze that had just been presented to her. Apart from the moral obligations, she was also concerned about how she would find the people she was to kill. That, in fact, was her biggest dilemma.  It would be impossible for her to trace nine people, who she knew only by their names. No nationality, no profession, nothing.

With her meager income, if one could even call it that, and the fact that she worked like a mule for sixteen to eighteen hours a day, it would be almost impossible for her to embark upon any sort of find-and-finish expedition. She wasn't optimistic. Maybe she should back off before Miller forced her to do this, just like Aslan had.

Hearing a soft moan from her left, Vahide shook her head to concentrate on the task at hand. She increased the frequency of her ministrations in the hope of another one of those wads of cash from her client. Seeing that he was enjoying her attention, Vahide knelt across his lap and put both her hands to work.

A loud cry of triumph of sorts, and a couple of heavy pants later, Miller pulled her back by her hair to face him. "So, my sweet, you sure about your answer, right?"

"But...I have to ask you something."

"I won't help you find these people. I don't know who they are. I will not pay you any more money. And, no, you will not be able to contact me again. Is there anything else you need to ask now?"

"Yes. How can I be absolutely certain that once I do kill these nine people, I will be free to live my own life without the shadow of Aslan?" 

Looking at her cocked brow, Miller took out a picture from his shirt pocket and handed it to her. "You recognize this girl?"

Vahide stared at the slightly faded picture and was unable to respond to Miller's query. She couldn't believe her eyes. She had never thought that she would ever see Asuman ever again. Or at least alive, ever again. "Allah sukur..." Muttering a quick thanks to her Lord, Vahide went back to staring at the picture.

Asuman had been another one of Aslan's girls. Vahide had met her in an ignominious hovel in Bursa nearly five years back. She was to entertain a client together with Asuman,  something that she hadn't yet done. And Asuman had been very considerate and kind with her, as she had guided her through her first 
uclu
.

They had become fast friends since that day, or as close as one could get to another person in her line of work. 

And then one night, Asuman had tried to run away from Aslan's clutches. She had confided in Vahide that she had fallen in love with a man from the West, one of her clients. She wanted to run off with him. But it was not to be. Aslan had foiled her plans of escape and had beaten her black and blue until there wasn't a breath left in her body. Or so Vahide had thought.

Aslan had wanted to make an example out of Asuman so that none of the other girls would ever dream of double-crossing him. He had thrashed her until her blood was splattered on the walls of the dingy corridor. And then, to add insult to injury, he had spat on her still form. Barking orders to Muhammad and Aseem to dispose of her body, Aslan had stripped off her clothes one last time. 

And then he had fixed Vahide with a malicious sneer, having known how close she was to Asuman. And how much this would hurt her.

Vahide could never forget that expression on Aslan's face, nor could she forget the terrible state of Asuman's body when she was stuffed into a jute sack and dragged off into the street like common garbage.Thinking about that night, Vahide still could not reconcile herself with the evidence of Asuman's survival from that trauma. "How...I mean, where is she? What happened to her?"

Miller smiled at her stilted words and took the picture from her shaking hands. "Your friend is happy and content in America. Married and respectable." Stopping to give a short laugh, he continued. "She was also given a chore to do. And she was successful. There you have it. You satisfied now?"

"Yes...But is she really okay now?"

Miller's face grew pinched, and his eyes narrowed behind his gold-rimmed glasses. "No more questions girl. I think I have been very patient with you. Just give me your final answer now. Will you do it or not?"

"I will....Yes, I will."

"Very well then, let's take you back from where I picked you up. Aslan must be getting worried about his
priced
possession." And saying that he began to zip his shorts up.

 

 

Chapter 22: Michelle - Missing Girl Found

Michelle woke up to the quiet hiss of TV static and found herself curled up on the old, dank-smelling sofa, with the television still silently flashing its images against her squinting, sleep-deprived eyes. The morning was still dark, and the clock on the microwave glowed 4:47. Michelle got up, stretched the stiff muscles in her neck and shoulders and switched off the TV, casting the room into darkness.

She stood for a minute, embracing the gloomy darkness and silence. She walked, as if in a trance, toward the front window to watch the sun rise. Or at least to watch the sky turn a lighter gray. She did not know how long she stood, watching, half-asleep. A car that was parked across the road and a couple driveways down the street started its engine and drove past. Michelle thought it odd that she had not noticed anyone walking to it, or heard its door close. But the thought passed, and the sky brightened.

At 7:30, she heard her alarm sounding from her bedroom. Michelle sighed and left her post to go turn it off. She heard Brendan sigh in his sleep as she passed his room. Comforted by the sound, her spirit lifted a little and after switching off the alarm clock, she felt awake and hungry enough to eat breakfast - a practice which she had all but given up entirely. 

She poured a bowl of cereal and turned the TV back on, but dissatisfied with the selection of Sunday morning talk shows and church programs, she switched it back off. She had forgotten it was Sunday. Not much of a church-goer, she normally worked or slept in on Sunday mornings. But today the thought of being surrounded by people, even smartly-dressed judgmental ones, felt surprisingly refreshing. She had the prayers of a nearby nondenominational church to whom she had been directed as part of her therapy. They had always been friendly and welcoming enough.

A certain restlessness grew inside of her. She needed to get out of this house. Michelle finished her bowl of cereal, rinsed it and left it in the sink, and opened the door to Brendan's room. "Wake up sleepy-head, time to get ready for church!"

...

Brendan fidgeted quietly and scratched at his neatly combed and flattened hair. It had taken a heaping, sticky handful of gel to get the back part to stay down. Michelle sat up straight in her pew, in her only flowery summer dress, trying to listen to the pastor's words. The alternation of droning words and quiet pauses, mixed with the heat of the un-air-conditioned sanctuary and the short period of sleep she had acheived that night all made for a perfect sleeping potion. She noticed several of the middle-aged and older men of the congregation nodding gently in sleepy rhythm.

The pastor finally concluded his sermon with a prayer and the piano played while the congregation rose and formed a line towards the lobby. Michelle had been sitting in the back, and so was one of the first to reach the outdoors. The sky was still overcast, and the air was so humid it was almost too thick to breathe. She thought it might storm yet this afternoon. Not in the mood to make uncomfortable small talk with strangers, she headed directly for the car, with Brendan in tow. But before she reached the parking lot, she heard her name.

"Ms. Sanchez!"

Michelle turned around, to see Pastor Dave jogging towards her. She put on a smile and prepared to compliment him on his sermon, trying to recall its subject. The Prince of Peace, or something, wasn't it?

"I was so glad to see you in the audience this morning!" Pastor Dave shook her hand enthusiastically. "How are you? I've been praying for you every night. I say, 'Dear God, just bless that poor woman's heart. Lord, you are so good, and I know you have great things in store for Ms. Sanchez!' I thought about you especially when I saw the paper this morning."

"Oh. Thank-you," was all Michelle could think to say. She forced another smile, though she knew it would not be overly convincing, and tried to find the words to send him on his blessed way. "Well, I have to be going. Have a nice day."

Pastor Dave backed away, still grinning, and waved. "You have a nice day too, Ms. Sanchez! God bless you! See you next Sunday, I hope!"

"I'm hungry." Brendan whined when they were in the car.

Michelle started the engine of the old Mazda. It turned over with a loud growl. "How about we go to the restaurant for lunch?" she proposed. Theirs was the first car to leave the parking lot.

Seated in a quiet booth at the restaurant where she worked, Michelle ordered a burger for Brendan and a soup for herself. She gave him the comics page from the newspaper she had found in the back. She scanned the headlines and photos, searching for whatever story the pastor had alluded to. 

Her eyes were drawn to a picture of a young smiling girl on a sofa, being hugged between her smiling parents. The headline made Michelle's heart skip a beat: "
MISSING GIRL FOUND
". Michelle read the article with trembling hands. Emma Nielsen, now twelve, had been kidnapped three years ago. Yesterday, she had turned up on her parents' front doorstep, thin, but physically unharmed, with little useful information as to where she had been all those years, and no explanation for why she had been returned. "It's a miracle." The father had quoted. "No mother should have to endure this," Mrs. Nielsen had said, "but my baby is home now, and that's all that matters."

Michelle couldn't breathe.   

Chapter 23: Godfrey De Vries - Nine Bullets

The phone was a tarnished, grubby old thing, sitting amidst a scrap heap of useless receipts and ballpoint pens on the counter. After the waitress showed it to him, she wandered off to stand a polite distance away and left Godfrey to make his call. He dialed the number from memory, then slowly lifted the receiver to his ear. His heart was beating unusually fast as he waited for someone to pick up. It seemed to take an eternity before anyone did; each ring was stretched out to a nearly endless, rattling whine which bounced around inside his head, filling it with doubts and second thoughts. But finally a voice answered:

"Hello?" It was a woman, speaking in English. Her voice sounded distant and tinny through the telephone receiver.

Godfrey reached back into his memory and dusted off his rusty English skills to formulate a response.

"Hello. Good day. My name is Godfrey De Vries . . ." He wasn't sure how to proceed, and only partially because of his incomplete English. He suddenly felt extremely foolish.

"Ah, Mr. De Vries," said the woman, switching smoothly to Dutch, "I've been waiting to hear from you."

Godfrey floundered for a moment and it was several moments before he could think to say anything. "You've been waiting to hear from me?" he stammered.

"Yes, Mr. De Vries, I have been anticipating a call from you. No doubt you are calling to learn more about the note that was delivered to you two days ago."

Godfrey looked furtively around him. The waitress was leaning against a counter a few paces away, tracing invisible patterns onto it with her finger. Godfrey turned away so as to muffle his voice somewhat.

"How do you know who I am?" he hissed into the telephone set. "Who are you?"

"As a banker, I thought you would know how very easy it is to find out things about people in this day and age," said the voice. "If it's done right, all you need is a name."

For some reason Godfrey felt a slight tingle down his spine.

"So I hope you will forgive me for not sharing my name with you, Mr. De Vries," the voice continued.

"What do you want?" asked Godfrey. He pressed his back against the wall so that he would resist the temptation to look repeatedly over his shoulder.

"The question isn't what I want," said the voice with feigned warmth. "The question is what you want. Do you want to play a game?"

"Damn your game," said Godfrey, his uneasiness giving way to anger. "It's ludicrous. And it's certainly no game."

"The stakes are high, but so is the payout."

"I don't even know who you are. How can you expect me to go along with this? This is all a sick prank as far as I'm concerned." Godfrey was seized with the temptation to hang up then and there, but the woman's voice held the phone to his ear as she began speaking again.

"You don't believe this is real? You are a wanted criminal, Godfrey De Vries. We know who you are, we know where you are; but we're giving you a chance at a clean slate. Not to mention a fortune greater than you ever had before."

"Clean slate," spat Godfrey. "Even if all you say is true, which I'm almost positive it isn't, what kind of deal is that? You're telling me to commit not one, but nine murders to wipe away my past crimes. Seems to me as though that only makes the likelihood of my getting apprehended nine times greater."

It occurred to Godfrey then that this might be some sort of ingenious police tactic employed to locate him. How, he couldn't say, but it crossed his mind that this might be a trap. He determined to get off the line in a minute whether his questions were answered or not.

"Don't pretend you've never killed before," said the woman. "You got away with it once. Taking lives is easier than stealing money — people don't care as much."

Godfrey's heart stuttered in his chest as though he had just fallen unexpectedly from a great height. The voice continued:

"There is a drawer in the counter next to you. Open it."

Godfrey glanced up to check on the waitress, but she had left to wait on a fat man in a weatherbeaten leather jacket. With a shaking hand, he slid open the drawer.

Godfrey's insides froze. An old black handgun lay amid a jumble of straws and sugar packets. It was scratched and black, but someone seemed to have splashed some white paint over the handle sometime along its long life. It looked horribly familiar. . . .

Godfrey's eyes flicked frantically around the room; no one was looking. Slowly, he eased his hand into the drawer and closed his fingers about the gun. Using his body to shield it from view, Godfrey examined it, but there was no doubt even after a brief look that this was indeed the weapon that Godfrey had once committed murder with.

"You should be very familiar with how it works, Mr. De Vries," breathed the voice in his ear. "It has nine bullets in it. Convenient, isn't it?"

Godfrey could no longer stand it, and looking up at the clock on the wall, he saw that he had overstayed his minute anyway. He stuffed the pistol inside his coat and slammed the telephone back into his cradle.

He murmured a rushed thank you to the waitress as he brushed by her and hurried out the door onto the drizzly street. The biting chill to the air was refreshing and cleared his head somewhat, but he was still breathing hard. He started to walk unsteadily down the street. A car rolled by and spattered him with icy water, but he barely even noticed. All he could think of was the gun, like an incriminating bloodstain, tucked into his coat's inside pocket.

Chapter 24: Tony - So Be It

Sitting down at his desk the next morning, he glanced down at the folder in the top of his waste paper basket. The note had been taunting him all night. After Karen had been taken from him, he had lost control of his life - he'd had no direction, little purpose. The note had whispered into his ear all night
‘this is your chance to regain that control and sense of purpose, Tony. Take it. When's a chance like this going to drop itself into your lap again, hmm?'

It proved to be a hard voice to ignore.

Instead of sitting down to get on with mentally preparing himself for the monotony of his job, he found himself fantasizing about what it might feel like to kill someone. His imagination both scared and exhilarated him.

He felt a projected rush of adrenaline and the sense of control it might bring back to his life. His eyes drifted back down to the folder. Pushing his plate of now-cold toast aside, he took the folder from the bin and opened it, biting down on his lower lip slightly.

Thoughts started racing through his mind; should he let anyone else know? Should he have someone at work check it out? Was he on a similar list? How would he get to these people?

How would he even kill them? He wasn't trained in any kind of firearms or weaponry. He had no experience of that kind at all. He was a desk drone, the paperwork guy.

Most of the questions seemed to answer themselves. He wouldn't let anyone else know or check up on it. It was a strong possibility that he was indeed on other lists - lists that were probably in the hands of the people he was supposed to kill.

One question remained, however.
How would he find them all?

That truly was a puzzling thought. His desire to regain control of himself and his life was so stifling, that he found himself even beginning to ignore the fact that there were real lives and real people at stake here. If he was on a list too, he reasoned, he couldn't just sit back and wait for someone to kill him for whatever it was this game might be promising them.

He pushed a hand through his thinning hair and let out a shaky breath.

He was going to do it. He had to, he felt, as a matter of survival if nothing else.

The only thing left was to find these people and learn how to kill them. They were what stood between him and Karen, and being in charge of his life. If that was what it was going to take, then... "So be it," he muttered to himself. 

 

Chapter 25: Kamali Ncube - Process

Kamali woke and couldn't move. She closed her eyes again, breathing deeply, and slowly curled her fingers into her palm with a low moan. Clenching her jaw, she released and curled her fists again. This time she restrained the noise.

She repeated the process with the joints in her arms and legs, working the bends as if she were an atrophied marionette. The tightness in her jaw shuddered and she hissed air through her nostrils. She raised an arm with agonizing slowness and wrapped her fingers around the cell phone on her bedside table.

Speed dial. One. "Murundi Designs, Office of Kamali Ncube. Luma speaking."

"Luma," Kamali hissed. She inhaled, told her secretary she would not be coming in today, and ended the call. She lay breathing for a while before closing her eyes once more.

Makenna stiffened and stared down into her coffee. "You are -" She faltered. "But isn't that a radical decision so early?"

"Preventative measures," Kamali said. "They are more successful than counter-attacks."

Her sister sighed and swirled the dark liquid in her foam cup. Kamali watched the way the tiny maelstrom spun and fell apart against itself. She considered reminding her sister that the coffee had most certainly cooled to a reasonable temperature by now.

Makenna suddenly looked up. Her eyes were red and swollen. Kamali looked away.

"Running is not getting there," she said in Shona. "Even you cannot change fate."

Kamali grimaced. "I have scheduled the surgery for next week. You do not have to be there."

Rolling on her side, Kamali pushed her legs off the bed and tenderly set her feet on the floor. The pressure made her gasp but she bit her lip and gradually rose. The mirror on the vanity reflected her perfectly and without shame.

Although Kamali carried the knowledge of her body's defeat she continued upkeep and review appointments with near-religious adherence. Aligning herself with a Port Elizabeth clinic specializing in oncology, she directed Dr. Gora to inform her of every drug trial she qualified for. He at times hesitated to register his patient, insisting the combination of treatments would undoubtedly affect both Kamali's health and trial result statistics, but the his patient provided more than enough paper bills to draw the moisture off his sweaty palms.

Kamali Ncube crossed her palms across her knees and steadily tapped her foot. The clinic clock ticked contrary to her rhythm. Kamali breathed and subtly adjusted her timing. Then the nurse called her name and shattered her precision.

Dr. Gora waved a manila folder at Kamali as he re-entered the office she was seated in.  "Test results are in," he said. He passed the file to his patient and watched as she read. Kamali had always insisted on viewing all scans, readings and results. It gave her a sense of holding the sickness in her palm and mind, of having some control over it by knowing the way it operated within her. Beginning in her breasts, the mutinous cells had tracked into her lymphatic system and infused themselves within her bones, leaving Kamali susceptible to fractures and in immense pain.

"It is very good. Your mediastinal nodes have shrunk significantly, the hairline fractures in your femurs have sealed up nicely and I'm not seeing any new cracks in the bones. And you gained five pounds. Congratulations."

Kamali was silent, letting the sight of her blue-white bone density scans sink into her eyes. "Which treatment is it?" When she did not receive an immediate response, she glanced up at the doctor. He had settled himself behind his desk and was absently poking a lymphatic system model with his pen. "Doctor Gora," she said, "which treatment do you believe is reversing my symptoms?"

The man would not meet her dark eyes. "Because of your amalgam of treatments, it is difficult to pin which one is affecting you positively. As it is, I can't confidently say that keeping you on so many regimens will not potentially backfire." He paused. "I will be removing you from several trials, each in turn. It will be a lengthy process to discern which treatment is the most effective," he said. He finally met Kamali's eyes. "I cannot guarantee any success, nor that the process will be pain free."

Kamali closed her eyes. Dr. Gora watched her flat chest rise as she slowly inhaled. When she reopened them she said, "We will take me off the Kednazodrin trial first."

Chapter 26: Elias Heikkinen - Mind Games

Elias wasn't sure what to tell his grandfather. If he mentioned the note, the logs, he'd be as much as admitting to computer crime. While he was sure his grandfather wouldn't understand, he'd almost certainly start paying extra, unwanted attention. Different scenarios ran through Elias' head as crafted a suitable response that would keep his grandfathers intrusions to a minimum.


"I was-"


"I don't care what you where doing. What I really want to know is why you got onto one of those moving death traps. The roads have it in for you, boy. They took my son, they'll not take my grandson. Do I need to walk you to school?"


"Ukki, please, enough already." Elias whined, secretly smiling inside, his grandfather already distracting himself from the core issue. He deliberately rolled his eyes and slumped his shoulders, excellent cues of exasperation with a hint of disrespect that his grandfather would instantly pick up on.


"Don't ukki me! You'll stay away from those things while you're under my roof, you hear! It's up to me to take care of you and I'll do it my own way and that means no buses. Go to your room and think long and hard about what you’ve done. You could have been killed."


His grandfather couldn’t stay mad at him, Elias knew, besides, he was more concerned than angry, his paranoia about transport no doubt finding justification in this latest set of events. Elias just nodded and walked up to his room but secretly he was smiling inside. All according to plan.


Paranoia being the prevalent theme, Elias thought about the accident and the note. Nine names, nine targets and an offer from someone or something of redemption, a clean slate. It seemed too simple and thinking about it, who were these other people and had they received a list just like his, their own name substituted for his? Perhaps the accident wasn’t an accident at all, perhaps it was an attempt by one of the people on the list.


He slumped on his bed and stared at the ceiling, trying to puzzle it out. He evaluated the facts. One, he had been bugged. Two, he had been given proof that someone had evidence against him. Three, he had almost been involved in an accident. Four, there was a list of people he had to kill to make that evidence go away. It seemed unlikely that all these things were connected only by coincidence.


These people were smart, they’d manage to enter his house, his room, his
computer
without a trace and log everything he had done, with no way for him to identify them. However, that gave him at least some information. He knew they had people in Finland, or at least people who could travel here. He knew that these people were skilled infiltrators and technical experts. It wasn’t much to go on, but he filed the information away mentally, hoping to eventually build up a better picture of them in his head as he went.


They weren’t concerned about the lives of the people on the list. With their skills, Elias reasoned, they were more than capable of eliminating them themselves which meant they had specifically chosen him for a reason. Just providing him names would make it extremely difficult to find and kill these people, or to even be sure he had killed the correct ones, there had to be more than one person with the same name in the whole world. Therefore, these people must be interested more in the challenges he would face and the solutions he would come up with than the end result. The allusion in the note, “
Would you like to play a game?”
became suddenly less sinister. It
was
a game. If it was a game, or a test of some kind, then it made sense there would be other players. The others on the list. It was beginning to make sense.


For some reason some person or organisation had set up coerced ten people to kill each other, of that much he was now certain. As to why, he wasn’t sure. Entertainment, perhaps? He’d seen movies about rich men paying to watch people tortured, of human hunts and other grisly things. Was he perhaps caught up in the machinations of a similar entity? He wasn’t sure, but he didn’t think so, the nature of the threat wasn’t right, the environment didn’t make sense. Surely these people couldn’t monitor everything, watch the participants every second of every day without exposing themselves, not even governments had that had of power. So if this wasn’t for entertainment, what was it about? A test of some kind? But for what?


He didn’t have enough data but he could kill two birds with one stone. If he had to participate, he’d need to know more about the people on the list and if he wanted to know more about the shadowy figures behind it all, he could make a more educated guess by working out what made them select each participant.


Thinking back to the accident, he had a surge of paranoia. Perhaps one of the others had found him and failed. If the others where searching for him, not only did he have to contend with finding out more about the people behind it as well as these others, but he also had to worry about surviving. Despite himself he felt a rush of adrenaline. This was exciting, he’d never had a challenge like this before, a puzzle so complex and multi-faceted. He took a breath and entered the first name on the list into a search engine.


Michelle Sanchez


It came back with over five million results. Many of them were no doubt for the same person, but even so, after doing some basic filtering to remove duplicates (which could take a very long time indeed) he’d have no guarantee of the right one. It was even possible that one or more of these people had no Internet presence whatsoever. No, Google couldn’t help him, though it did give him another piece of information - the people behind this didn’t want this to be easy, which further supported his idea that this was more of a test than some rich man’s blood sport. Out of curiosity he tried each of the other names and came back with equally dismaying results except for one.


Kamali Ncube


It was an unusual name. There were several results, but nowhere near as many as the others. Better yet, they all seemed to be related to the same person. She was an African architect, a famous one it seemed.
Interesting, they aren’t afraid to target relatively high-profile people.
Elias posted the other names onto an identity theft website and posted a small bounty for information on each of them. He didn’t want to get his hands dirty and there were already people out there with their fingers in government databases, no need for him to put himself at risk when he could pay someone else to. Ignoring them for now, he put his mind back to the task at hand. Kamali Ncube, the architect. Could she be one of the people he was looking for? There was only one way to be sure and that was to confront her and see what her reactions were. Ideally, he’d do it in person or at least via a camera or some kind of surveillance but that wasn’t possible. He couldn’t just leave for Africa, he had to reason to go, no excuse and even if he did, it was too dangerous. Here he had the home advantage and it was too early to give that up for so little gain.


It didn’t take him long to find out the number of the office where this Kamali Ncube worked. Using a skype account on someone else’s computer he had taken control of, he routed a call to Murundi Designs. At first, all he heard was an automated message in a language he didn’t understand but he held the line and eventually another automated message played in heavily accented English. He listened and then put the phone down.


He had barely been able to understand what the message had said but after thinking about it he worked out it was telling him that it was outside office hours but if he knew what extension he wanted he should dial it and leave a voice message. Of course, he should have thought about the time difference, it was a rookie mistake to make and he chided himself for letting his excitement make him careless. He had no idea what extension he would need but it was clear he wouldn’t be getting through to Kamali without having to go via a receptionist unless he found it. He didn’t like the idea of having to talk to anyone, even through a voice distorter on his computer. He set himself a deadline. Find her extension code before her office opened or make the call. He had to know if things were really what they appeared to be and with people potentially out to murder him, he couldn’t waste time.

Chapter 27: Vahide Younan : Aslan's Bonus

"Vahide, Aslan is calling you. He seems to be really excited about something and wants to see you in his office." 

"Aisha...Wha..."

"Get up Vahide or else Aslan will definitely come up here. And you know how angry he gets when he has to do that. Please wake up." 

Aisha shook Vahide's shoulder again, trying to jolt her out of her state of drowsiness. Her face seemed very pale and she kept looking back towards the door as if expecting Aslan to make a threatening appearance any moment. Vahide sat up in her bed, rubbing the grit out of her eyes and straightening her threadbare night slip over her thighs. "I'll just wash my face and be right there. What time is it?"

Receiving no answer from the girl, Vahide looked up and found her room deserted.
Must have been in a hurry to report back to Aslan
, she thought to herself. Shrugging at the thought, Vahide slid off the bed and was a little surprised when she didn't hear the sound of her knee cap crunching or her collar bone grunting. Walking gingerly towards the cracked basin at the end of the corridor, she flexed her arms and legs, almost anticipating the usual aches and pains to flood back into her body.

Turning the faucet around, she bent over the basin and splashed her face with the slightly muddy water. Taking some of it in her palm, she tried to sift out some of the dirt through her fingers and then rinsed her mouth. A beautiful face with a fading bruise under the left eye looked back at her from the dust-caked mirror on the opposite wall. Finger-combing her long hair, she made her way down the stairwell towards Aslan's office.

Barefooted and in her shabby slip, she stepped into Aslan's domain. It was clearly the most furnished room in the house. From gaudy show pieces to a red candelabra, the small space aptly displayed Aslan's lack of taste. He even had nude terracotta models of women on his shoddy desk. Taking a quick look around the room, Vahide leaned against the door and waited for Aslan. The sounds of a toilet flushing had alerted her to Aslan's presence in the adjoining lavatory.

The thin door to the lavatory creaked off its hinges as a tall, barrel-chested man with thick black curly hair stepped into the cramped space. His hands were busy adjusting his member under the tight-fitting pants that had recently been zipped up and his first glance in Vahide's direction made her stomach lurch.

Ya Khuda! He is in one of his moods
, Vahide thought to herself as her calm demeanor threatened to retreat into a shell of fear and disgust. Her hands became clammy and cold sweat broke out in tiny beads along her hairline. Steeling herself with an armor of optimism that very rarely came to her rescue, she stood her ground with the hope that everything would turn out to be right. 

"You took a long time, Vahide. You took too long to come to me. You know how angry I get when you whores keep me waiting but tonight is your lucky night. I am so pleased with you that I have decided to forgive your infractions and give you a surprise."

Walking past Vahide, he closed the door of his office and locked it. Standing behind her, he whispered in her ear, "You have really pleased me, Vahide. Your hard work had paid rich dividends for me and I am happy to tell you that you are now my number one girl. And that means a raise and a bonus, right?" 

Sliding a hand along her left cheek, his fingers touched her lips as his heavy breath resounded in Vahide's ear, "Smile for me, my princess. Because tonight you will have what only a few girls have had before. A promotion." A loud guffaw followed the honey-dipped words as his hand traced the path of her throat down to her unrestrained bosom. Her flimsy clothing was no defense against Aslan's demanding hands and Vahide felt a numbness pervade her senses.

Shoving her across his table, Aslan roughly moved her night slip out of his way as he began caressing and fondling her hips and thighs. Scared witless, Vahide resisted his onslaught as she struggled against his hold. She tried to protest but no words escaped her mouth. She tried to scream but only her cold breaths sided with her mind. Exerting against his onslaught, Vahide was shocked into submission when a hard slap struck her across her left cheek.

"You make one sound and I promise you that I will kill you with my bare hands. What did you think the promotion was, you whore? This is your promotion and this is your bonus. I have waited so long to have a taste of what I have been selling to so many people and now I will finally have you." Vahide stilled and only the sound of her choppy breaths reverberated in the room. The silence was broken by another slap, this time on her buttocks as she flinched violently at the impact.

Hearing her whimper with pain, Aslan grinned and bent over her to whisper in her ear, "They told me you showed them a great time but they didn't tell me what a killjoy you were. I know how much you enjoy being tied up and beaten because I have the extra lira in my safe to prove it. You have satisfied all your clients, so don't you think your boss deserves the same courtesy." 

Sucking on her earlobe, Aslan began using his hands on her body mercilessly while Vahide groaned in disbelief and anguish. She had grown used to a lot of things over the years, but never in her six years as a prostitute had she had to endure this from any man. Even Aslan, who had always been lewd and careless with his words and hands had never raped her or any other girl working for him. She had felt detached from her body while she had worked to earned her living, but at this moment her entire being shrieked with pain and disgust.

When she heard the sound of his pants being unzipped, she closed her eyes and sobbed uncontrollably. Feeling the taste of blood at the corner of her mouth, she couldn't believe what was happening to her and how ironic it was.
A prostitute being raped. Who would have thought? 

The last thought that crossed her mind before she blanked out was of a crumpled list carrying the names of nine strangers. And a promise to herself that another person's name would soon be added to it.

 

Chapter 28: Thiago Torres - Decisions

Miguel drove, but this time it was because Thiago was always too shaky after a job.  Miguel seemed unaffected; he was smiling, telling obscene jokes, and swerving across the road as part of his punchlines.  Of course, he did less of the actual job, just standing back, passing tools to Thiago, asking questions.  Thiago worked with concentration and precision, unpicking the human puzzle to reveal the wet and sticky red core.  It was unpleasant work and afterwards as the tension dissolved and he unwound he started shaking uncontrollably, almost as bad as the drug addicts who gathered in the tiled public toilets and shared needles.

"Thia, this gets worse every time."  Thia opened his eyes and was surprised to see that Miguel was staring at him.  He waved a hand at the windscreen, telling him to look back at the road, though it was empty ahead of them.  Miguel obeyed, but carried on talking.

"Seriously, Thia, I've never seen you this bad.  You'd better hope Vitargo never sees this."

"It's nothing, Miguel.  Just drive.  The job is done, and that's it for today."

"Does João see you like this?"

Thiago straightened up though his stomach still cramped, and grabbed Miguel's arm.  Miguel let go of the steering wheel, holding it straight with the other and turned his head, starting when he realised that Thiago was leaning in close to peer into his eyes.

"Don't talk about my son like that."  Thiago's eyes were intent, and sweat beaded his forehead.  "João stays out of this.  Of course he doesn't see me like this, how would I explain it to him?  Do you tell your girlfriends what you really do for a living?  Have you told your mother?"  Miguel flinched and Thiago let go of his arm feeling shamed.  It was a low blow, Miguel's mother was in her seventies and had operable cataracts clouding her vision, if Miguel could only put the money together for the operation.  They drove on in silence, just the whine of the electric engine and the chirrup of crickets in the cooling, evening air.  Thiago curled back in on himself and Miguel fastened his hands to wheel like lampreys to a shark, keeping his gaze ahead.

They were barely ten minutes away from Thiago's house when he felt himself come to a decision.  He uncurled, his cramps attentuated but still present, and pulled the piece of paper from his pocket.

"Pull over," he said.  Miguel's hand tightened on the wheel, his knuckles whitening, and he said nothing.  "Migo, pull over," said Thiago.  "This is important."

The car slewed to the side of the road, the tyres kicking up dust as Miguel braked.  "My mother is important," he said coldly, "but that doesn't seem to matter to you so much."

"Migo, I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have said that.  I... I reacted.  I want to apologise to you, and I think maybe this will explain... and perhaps apologise as well."

"You're
loco
."  Miguel didn't start the car though.

"Read this paper."  Miguel took it from Thiago's hand and smoothed it.  His lips moved as he read the words, and when he'd finished he looked up.

"Is this for real?"

"Migo, I wish I knew.  João had it when I came home today and said he wished he could play the game so that he could go to America and own a big car.  There's no envelope, it was pushed under the door.  Someone knew to find me, and someone's put me on a list for other people to find.  I feel... violated somehow.  I'm
nobody
Migo.  What do I do?  I persuade people that Vitargo knows best, there are far worse people out there!"

"Who are these other people?"

"I've no clue.  I don't even know how to go about finding out who they are.  Those names look foreign, they may not all be here in Brazil."

"None of them might be here then?"

"Hah!  It's possible.  So where does the money for the travel come from?  How do I find these people at all?  It's a fantasy, but a dangerous one.  One of the people on this list might be stupid enough to come and find me, hoping to kill me and leave João an orphan...."

Miguel was silent for a minute, creasing and uncreasing the paper between his fingers.  Then he rested his hand on Thiago's shoulder.

"I'll help you," he said.  "It doesn't say you can't have any help.  And I think you already solved the problem for us."

"Solved...?"

"We find a way to tell the world where to find you.  Then we kill everyone who comes looking."

Chapter 29: Ebisawa Hitomi - a Part of a Cast

Bright rays of sunlight arced down into the escalator, lancing into the eyes of the people leaving the Tokyo metro. Some pulled sunglasses out of their bags or pockets, others lifted their hands to fend off the offending light. As they emerged and their eyes adjusted, it was as if they had been transported.

The place was consumed by girls and boys and other mysterious individuals wrapped in prints and patterns in every conceivable material, each clawing desperately at a shred of individual identity.

Blue-haired lovers in leather head-to-toe, hand clasped and faces painted.

A Victorian mistress, lacy parasol held high, with a flock of courtiers dressed in dapper grays.

Cybergoths who would be the envy of Medusa, their false locks dyed and twisted with the utmost of care.

Welcome to the circus that is
Harajuku
.

Ebisawa Hitomi moved through this circus, becoming just another Japanese in the cloud of sub-culture. Her own dress was conservative for the place she found herself in, though by no means normative. Her frilled skirt, a purchase from a previous visit to the famed street, was a touch immodest but dark in colour. The blouse and fitted jacket she wore were of the same description: not fitting for a typical woman, but not fitting for the
Harajuku
scene either. Here, in the midst of fashion extremes, her relative normalcy set her apart.

Her movements were automatic, practised and rehearsed. She had a goal in mind, and she could think of nothing besides fulfilling that goal.

A bell rang feebly as she swung the door open, a noise that was repeated as it closed behind her. Inside the small store - a quasi-hidden basement, really - she immediately began to browse the small selection of goods. Again, she had a goal, and her focus was placed entirely on that goal.

"
Ohio,
" a voice called out.

"Mm?" she replied, looking up from a pair of neon stilettos.

"Can I help you, miss?" A man materialized from behind a rack of jackets.

Hitomi smiled, and, instead of answering, asked, "Where's Sato-san today?"

The man walked over to the door, saying, "Not here today." When he reached it, he turned the lock and flipped the sign. Hitomi eyed him carefully.

"Ebisawa, right?"

"What is it to you, hm?" she countered.

He chuckled. "Easy, now. I know what's up."

A raised eyebrow was Hitomi's only response.

"You choose your purchase, I'll complete the deal. Then you can go home, hang up whatever it is you choose to buy in your closet and let it rot there while you enjoy that fleeting high you chase."

Satisfied, she goes back to her inspection of the shoes.

"But," he continued, "I have a proposition for you, Hitomi-san."

"Mm?" She didn't even look up.

"Your fix is only temporary. Let's say I can bring you what you truly crave."

The pointed shoes fell to the floor as Hitomi rushed toward the shopkeeper.

"Where is Sato-san?"

He ignored her and went on. "How about we play a game, Hitomi-san. Would you like to play a game?"

"
Baka
!" she screamed. "Where is Sato-san?"

"Sadly, Sato-san is a mere statistic right now, lost on a page of numbers denoting suicide trends among working Japanese."

"
Uso
! You
lie
!"

"Maybe, but that doesn't change the fact that he's dead."

Hitomi's face blanched, only her cheeks remaining rouge from the make-up she had applied that morning.

"Yes, Hitomi," the man continued. "Sato is dead. Now, let's start over, shall we?"

He received no answer, as Hitomi's gaze had become unfocused, her body starting to sway slightly as she walked backwards and knelt down.

"My name is Kiyoshi, and I'm here to help you."

Her rage finally spilt over.

"Murderer!" she hissed. With a feral cry she lunged toward him, the dropped stiletto now brandished in her hands like its namesake.

Kiyoshi's eyes narrowed. "What are you trying to prove?" His voice was level and calm as he caught the hysterical woman, arresting her wild swing with his own strong grip. She screamed something more, causing Kiyoshi to recoil a little. Her breath reeked of stale beer, her clothing was consumed with the scent of smoke and cigarettes.

"You don't even deserve a second chance at fame,
ama
." With a quick shove she went tumbling to the floor, a mess of tears and curses.

"But I'm supposed to allow you that chance, y'hear?" He still hadn't raised his voice, nor had it changed from the stoic tone.

"I'm your new contact, I'm filling Sato-san's pathetic role," he stated. "But only if you play this game."

"What sort of game?" she whispered coldly from the floor, refusing to look up at Kiyoshi.

"You know exactly what I'm talking about. The note."

"What note?"

"The one you burned up."

"I don't know what you're talking about."

A moment of silence hung between the pair, their icy words hanging like crystals in the air.

"You didn't open the package, did you Hitomi-san?"

"Again, I don't know what you're talking about.
Cho baka
!"

His face remained unchanged by her outburst, his body unmoving, eyes unblinking. "How are you to kill those people if you don't know their names anymore?"

Now she turned upward to face him, and said, "I don't need to remember. I'm not killing
anyone
." With that she was up on her feet once more, making toward the closed - and locked - door. Kiyoshi reached out, though, and, with a deft grab on her shoulder, spun her around to face him.

"
Sawannai-de
!" Hands off!

His cool finally broke, and Kiyoshi lay a slap across her face.

"I found and killed Sato, what makes you think I can't do the same to you?"

Hitomi became lost in her hysterics, screaming, "You don't need me. You can kill them yourself, a-hole!
Baka
, leave me alone!"

"
Damare-yo
!" Shut-up, and a second slap across her face.

"This is your chance for a permanent fix, no more need for Satos in your life."

"
Iie
!" No!

"For fame then, mm?"

"
I-
" her voice gave out, she didn't want to answer. For years she had fantasized about her return to glory, the recapturing of the spotlight. Kiyoshi smiled at his victory.

"For your fame, then."

"You don't need me!" Hitomi screamed once more.

"Then I might as well kill you," he remarked. Hitomi fell to the floor in tears once more. "But it'd be a shame. Every game needs a cast of players, no?"

Hitomi merely sobbed, the sobs sometimes interrupted by hushed curses.

A half hour later, Ebisawa Hitomi descended the escalator into the darkness of the Tokyo metro, arms clutched about a shoe box and eyes brimming with tears. She didn't remove her sunglasses for fear of displaying her weakness. Her eyes would betray her brave face, and tears would only set her apart in the rushing crowd. Now more than ever, Hitomi felt a need to blend in.

Chapter 30: Yu Mei - Turnaround

Mei pressed her forehead against the the cool glass wall of her shower and let the warm water soothe her. She had to wash it all away, the painful feeling, the confusion; it was all too much. The Nian was taunting her, he had to be. The letter, the picture, another dead end, another lie, another laugh at her expense.

She banged her head against the tiles in frustration.  "
Shǎbī!
" She didn't know what was worse, that she had fallen for it in the first place or that she had almost roped Al into it. What had she been thinking? And the names; the computers had nothing on the first three, that was as far as she'd gotten in the whole two hours she'd wasted. Whoever they were, they weren't in any local databases and if she wanted to look further afield, people would start asking questions.

There was the sound of knocking coming from outside, someone at the door, and so she tucked her long dark hair behind her, twisted it, and secured it in place with a pair of chopsticks she kept near the shower for such occasions. She wrapped a towel around her, securing it just above her breasts, and wandered down the hall to peer through the spyhole. It was Al.

"Mei, are alright? After you left like that I thought I better check up on you."

"Go home Al, I'm fine."

"Look, I... could I come in? I bought pancakes, a peace offering. I'm sorry for sticking my nose in. We can have some pancakes and then I'll get out of here, what do you say?"

Mei rolled her eyes and couldn't resist a smile. Al knew all her weak spots. She slid the door open a crack and peered out. "Let's see these pancakes."

Al smiled and held up a steaming plastic bag.

"Come in then, but not for long. We eat, then you go."

"It's a deal."

"Plates are in the kitchen." She called as she let the door off the chain and headed to the bedroom to change. "I just got out of the shower, I'll be with you in a sec."

She changed into a pair of pyjamas, deliberately choosing something plain - nothing too titillating, she didn't need
that
going around the office - and kept a keen ear on the noises of plates being placed and cupboards opening and closing.

"So, pancakes..." She said, grinning, but her voice trailed off as she saw what Al was doing. He was stood by the breakfast bar that separated her kitchen from her small lounge, reading the contents of the package.

"
Hùn zhàng!
"

"Mei, what is this? Is this what you were working on? Mei, this is serious! If even a fraction of this is real, we could reactivate the case, we could find him!"

Mei strode over and snatched the papers from his hands. "Get out!"

"Mei! Why are you so angry? I saw the file on the coffee table, I though it was a case file but this Mei, why haven't you brought this to Lee yet? I don't understand, don't you want to catch him?"

"Catch him!? This is another one of his games! More lies to embarrass me, to mock me, to twist the knife."

"No it's not, Mei, it's not. The second one on the list, Godfrey. He's real."

"What? How did you-"

"You didn't shut down the computer when you stormed out. I thought maybe something you'd seen had upset you, so I went back in, looked at your searches. Ran the names against some international databases."

"But how? You need authorisation."

"Why'd you come to see me in the first place? I don't just make good pancakes, I have some tricks up my sleeve."

She looked down at the paper in her hands. Goff-ray De Freeze. She sounded the name out, it sounded weird, foreign. "Who is he? What's his connection to the Nian?"

Al nodded towards the plates and Mei shook her head, rolling her eyes before taking a seat on the opposite end of the bar and preparing a pancake. Al sat down opposite and began the same.

"He's Dutch." Al said. "He escaped from a minimum security prison a few weeks ago in Holland."

Mei finished preparing a pancake and shoved the whole thing into her mouth. "Bah! He could be anyone! It proves nothing."

"No, but if that photo is right, it means the Nian is a Westerner like this man. Perhaps the Nian wants to trick you into killing any of those that could identify him. The Nian isn't Chinese. Who's to say he isn't Dutch? Who's to say he didn't make a few friends when in a Dutch prison, a few friends that need to be eliminated?"

Mei swallowed another pancake. "You have no idea how much I want to believe this, but you do realise how ridiculous that sounds, right?"

"Not when you factor in that Godfrey was put away from embezzling money. And the first name, I looked her up too. She reported her daughter missing - kidnapped - over a year ago in America."

Mei stopped eating. It was starting to make sense. "Child abduction, international travel. You think this Godfrey was somehow funding the Nian, some kind of international child-smuggling ring. Child porn? Something worse? That's why he wants them killed? Severing ties with his past?"

"I don't know, it's all tenuous at best but I think it's enough to reopen the case. If you'll trust us. If you'll trust me. We can do this Mei, we can finally turn this thing around. The Nian has gone too far this time, he's got cocky and now we have him. We can bring down him and his ring of perverts once and for all."

Chapter 31: Alexi Bogdanov - I Know

Alexi twisted under the sheets and smiled as the wandering hand traced it’s way up his body.


“What do you know, hmm?”


She straddled him, Marta sliding a silky thigh across his waist and leaning forwards as she did, that vanilla-scent infusing him as she scratched his chest and put her face close to his.


“I know what you should do.”


Alexi could think of only one thing he wanted to do right now. He moved a hand and it was quickly taken up, held down at the wrist. He felt himself rising, his heart beating faster and faster. Marta continued to hold him down, her smile just visible underneath her hair as it closed them both off from the world like a curtain draped around them.


“Marta...” His voice was shaky.


“You should do it, you should play the game.” She whispered, soft and warm in his ear as she pressed her buttocks against him. “We could do it together.”


“Marta...I...” Alexi began than gasped as Marta pushed herself onto him, her back arched and breasts hanging ripe and round in his face.


“Your dream Alexi, we could have your dream.” Marta moaned, thrusting herself against him, sending waves of pleasure shuddering through him.


“Oh God, Marta! Oh God!”


She pulled his hands up by the wrists and placed them around her waist as she rode back and forth, harder and harder.


“Alexi, your dream Alexi, don’t you want it?”


“But-”


She squeezed him and raked his chest. “Don’t you
want it
, Alexi? Don’t you
want it
?”


“Marta, Marta, Marta...” Alexi gasped, his words shooting out in short sharp bursts as his whole body pulsed.


As their bodies both shuddered together, Marta folded onto his chest, her breathing hard and heavy in his ear.


“Play a game with me Alexi, play
the
game.”


Alexi just lay there, more exhausted than he had ever felt, suddenly more tired than he could possibly imagine. He felt the sharpness of teeth nibbling on his earlobe and a hand sliding down, holding him, working him but he couldn’t stay awake, the tiredness overwhelming him, smothering him like a blanket. He heard Marta’s voice, husky, sensual, urgent as her hand moved faster.


“Your dream Alexi. Don’t you want your dream?”


Then there was black.


* * * * *


When Alexi woke up, Marta was gone. She worked early and when Alexi looked at the clock, he saw the all too familiar time staring back at him, the refuge of day time television, students and the unemployed. His memory of the night was hazy, he didn’t feel very rested at all, but he remembered the sex. God, the sex. Marta had been crazy, had awoken something in both of them that he hadn't known existed. Wiping the sleep from his eyes he had a shower, extra hot. When he got out, he saw the letter waiting on the kitchen table at the end of the hall and his thoughts went to Marta. Whilst he got dressed, he decided that he needed to call her.


“Alexi! You can’t call right now, I’m working!”


“Marta, about last night...”


“Alexi, I haven’t got time for this right now, I’ll call you back in an hour over lunch.”


There was a click and the line went dead. He sighed and spent the next half-hour pacing back and forth before deciding practice some magic tricks. The shame of yesterdays disaster made him avoid
that
particular trick, but he practiced a few simple card tricks until the phone rang.


“Marta?”


“Alexi, you got me in a lot of trouble with my boss earlier, I’ve told you before you can’t call me when I’m at work.”


“Sorry.” He said quietly, looking down at his feet.


“What did you want to talk to me about anyway?”


“Last night, what happened? What was that?”


“What was what?”


“Last night, the sex...”


“I think you must have been dreaming, I’d barely got undressed before you’d fallen asleep. You sound like you enjoyed yourself though. Is this really what you called me about, Alexi? You want to get me fired because of a sex-dream?”


“Marta, I-”


“Oh God, is this is your hapless way of telling me you’ve been sleeping around, is that it? Getting me fired at the same time just the icing on the cake for you, is it Alexi?”


“Marta, no! NO! Of course not, it was just a dream, like you said!”


“I’m joking Alexi. Well, I’m happy you had such a nice dream. Maybe we can make it a reality later, hmm?” She laughed.


“Maybe.”


“Ugh,
Alexi.
You have to cheer up! Be positive.”


“I guess.”


“That’s a start. You can have your dream Alexi.”


“What?”


“Your dream, tonight. You don’t get to have me all in your head by yourself. I want to see what’s so great in there. Tonight Alexi, your dream comes true. I’ve got to go now, love you.”


“I love y-”
Click.


Alexi walked back into the bathroom, confused and afraid. He looked at the mirror and unbuttoned his shirt. Had it all been just a dream? The scars in the mirror seemed to laugh at him.

Chapter 32: Michelle - Burning Bridges

Michelle pulled up into her driveway and immediately knew that something was wrong. She turned off the engine and pushed open the car door, her heart picking up speed in her chest. She regarded her house, noting two broken windows and the front door hanging wide open. She looked around for any sign of immediate danger. The neighbourhood was still and silent in the summer heat. "Brendan, stay in the car." Her tone must have frightened him because he obeyed without question.  She stepped out, absently tugged on her dress, and walked towards her house, cheap sandals clicking on the cracked pavement. She climbed the crooked steps and went inside through the broken door, preparing herself for the worst. Chaos welcomed her. The table and chairs were knocked over, dishes smashed on the floor, couch cushions flung across the room, papers strewn everywhere. The TV had been pulled to the ground, books had been separated from their covers, wall hangings hung crooked or lay damaged on the floor. The phone cord had been cut - with a dull knife, apparently. Michelle ran down the hall. Her bed covers were on the floor, her mattress hung sloppily from the frame, dresser drawers gaped open, clothes had been dumped out. Her closet was left open, not a single hanger left on the rod. She checked Brendan's room - some of his toys had been cut open, stuffing littered the floor.  Sarah's room was nearly untouched. There were some extra footprints in the dust on the floor, but everything else was intact. Michelle leaned on the doorway. Her hands trembled. Who would do this? Why?  It didn't matter. The message was unmistakably clear. Someone knew where she lived. Her home was no longer safe. Icy calm crept over her. Michelle straightened and closed the door to her daughter's bedroom. She returned to her own, picked some of her clothes up off the floor and bundled them up in a blanket. She went to Brendan's room and did the same. As she packed, her mind moved quickly and methodically. She needed only essentials. Clothes, money, toothbrush. No pictures or sentimental things. She wanted nothing more than to be rid of the past. She retrieved some of Brendan's less damaged toys and added them to her bundles. In a locked box, she placed birth certificates, passports, and Sarah's photo. For a moment, she held up the note that had come with it. Do you want to play a game? She felt a strong urge to tear it up and burn it. Instead, she slipped it inside the box and shut it with a click.  She tossed the bundles into the trunk of the car, hid the locked box under the front seat, and went back into the house. Brendan didn't ask any questions, just watched his mother with wide, solemn eyes.  Back in the house, Michelle scanned the rooms one last time - not to say goodbye, but to make sure she had not forgotten something important. She did not open Sarah's door again.  Michelle looked out the window to make sure Brendan was still safe in the car, then went back into the kitchen and reached into the very back of one of the lower cupboards. She pulled out a dusty bottle of vodka, left over from when her mom used to visit. She hurled the bottle at the back wall. It broke with a satisfying crash. Glass fell to the floor, clear vodka dripping down the faded flowery wallpaper. Michelle fumbled for the matchbook she kept in the cutlery drawer. She struck a match and held it to the glistening stain on the wall. It lit and immediately flames began to climb the wall. Some dripped onto the puddle on the floor. Michelle hesitated. Part of her wanted to stay and watch. For her children, she made herself step over the broken television, walk out the front door and slam it shut. Calmly, she climbed back into the old Mazda and backed out of the driveway. She drove down the familiar road, never looking back. Her hands had begun to tremble again. She turned onto the main highway that would take her out of the city. After she had been on the highway for a while, she started to giggle. Appalled at her own inappropriate reaction, she covered her mouth in an effort to suppress it. This only caused her to snort and laugh harder. She laughed until tears ran down her cheeks. Brendan, who had been silent since lunch, laughed along nervously, not understanding why. Michelle knew she sounded like a maniac, but could not contain herself. She laughed and cried until the anxiety subsided and the throbbing began in the back of her skull. She cranked open the window, letting the wind dry her cheeks and tangle her hair.  "Mom," Brendan's voice was hesitant, but his eyes were serious in the rearview mirror, "where are we going?" Michelle rubbed her neck and realized she was still wearing her Sunday dress. The giggles returned, tightening in her stomach, but this time she controlled herself. "We're going to live somewhere else for a while," she told him, trying to be as honest as she could. Brendan seemed confused, but resigned himself and leaned against the window.  "Hey, Brendan." He looked up again, his face squished into an adorable but sobering frown. "Wanna play a game? I spy with my little eye, something that is blue."

Chapter 33: Tony - Garbage Day

He'd been distracted all day at work, quizzing himself relentlessly over his decision. Was he doing the right thing? Could he even do it? When he got home and looked at his desk, he found his answer.

It wasn't there. The bloody thing wasn't there! Of course, it wouldn't be, he'd tidied away the rubbish, his little home office waste basket reaching more than half-full after the addition of the file. This morning was garbage day so last night, as per his schedule, he'd emptied all the bins. They would have already taken the rubbish now. The names were gone.

"Bollocks!" He shouted to the empty room. "Bloody, bollocksing arse!"

He began pacing, trying to think of what to do. He couldn't go to the dump, not now. They'd be closed and the chances of finding the folder again was slim. Worse, it would mess up with his routine. No, he'd allocated a few hours to go over the list and that was what he was going to do, list or no list. It was only ten names, he was sure he could remember them. He scrabbled onto his desk chair and sat, pen poised over a notebook. He scribbled the number 1 then hovered over the page.

Come on!

Bogdanov! The first one was Bogdanov, Alexi Bogdanov...

What was the next one? He racked his brain and stuck, he wrote his own name underneath as number 2. There had been 9 names, but 9 was an odd number and he was sure he was on someone else's list. 10 made it complete, made it whole and feeling that completeness his mind opened up and provided him another three names.

Heikkinen

Hitomi

Mei

That was five. Five more to go. He left for spaces and wrote Younan at the bottom. That was a Y name, it was almost certainly last. As he began filling in the first names, the others came to him and he breathed a sigh of relief.

Ten names, nine people to find. Where were these people? Were they all in England? It was possible, he supposed, but there were a lot of foreign names that made him immediately think it was more likely these people were spread out globally. He slumped in his chair. This was going to be impossible. Checking his watch, he noticed he still had an hour left to work on the list so sighing, he opened his work laptop and idly scanned the databases for names. Maybe he'd get lucky.

Bogdanov. Nothing.

De Vries. Nothing.

Heikkinen. Nothing.

Hitomi. Nothing.

Mei. Nothing.

Ncube. What kind of name was that anyway? Nothing.

Sanchez...

Something popped up on screen. Rachelle Sanchez, 25. Emmigrated from America. Arrested for cocaine possession.

He did a double take. Was this one of them? He couldn't be sure but it sounded right, her spoke the name out loud.

"Rachelle. Rachelle Sanchez." Yes, that was definitely one of the names, he was sure of it. She had to be connected to the others somehow, in fact, they all must have some kind of connection otherwise such a task would be impossible - hardly, and he shivered as he invoked the word, a game at all. Torres sounded American, maybe Spanish-American, Mexican maybe? Maybe somehow Rachelle would provide a clue to finding this guy and from him he would find the next. It all seemed pretty far fetched, but what choice did he have? Karen was out there, alive. He crawled inside himself, wrapped himself in routine and procedure to cope with her death and now she was back, he couldn't just say no to that, couldn't just give up. She'd died once at the hands of terrorists but if he abandoned her now it would be as good as setting off the bombs himself. He had to try and besides, he found himself making excuses, he'd decided now, it was scheduled, planned, he couldn't not do it.

Thinking about it, he wondered which one of the others would provide the clue to finding him. How was he connected to them? He didn't recognize any of the names. It wouldn't matter anyway, as long as he moved soon he'd be harder to track, harder to find.

The game was on.

Chapter 34: Godfrey De Vries - Learning the Rules

Godfrey sat, cold and huddled against the concrete wall, gazing out at the relentless rain that poured down to explode against the water, splashing like tiny meteorites into the rippling grayness of the river. The smell of cheep cigarettes wafted from the glowing red butts that the other bums under the bridge were smoking. But Godfrey barely noticed any of this; he just stared at the pistol cradled in his lap.

There was no doubt that this was the very same gun Godfrey had held in his shaking seventeen-year-old hands almost forty years ago, that he had pulled the trigger of with fatal consequences. It was a Browning High-Power, black and grimy, with a splatter of white paint on its hand grip. Godfrey picked up the handgun and turned it over in his raw hands. His spindly fingers stroked the handle, tickling the slim trigger.

Nine bullets. Nine names.

But who were the names? Who wanted them dead? And why had 
they
 chosen 
him
 to be the killer?

Some game
, thought Godfrey. But he was now sure that it was no game, no mere prank. This was real. The Browning High-Power was proof of that. The woman on the phone was proof of that.

But how to win a game that had no rules? How to defeat an opponent he didn't know? How to quit a game he had never joined?

Could he really kill nine people? Did that feeble muscle pounding in his chest (which he hesitated to call a heart) feel any revulsion at the thought? No. He was repulsive, weak, and many other things, but he was not scrupulous. He was a criminal. He was a murderer.

Godfrey gripped the pistol in his hand; the rough plastic brought back disturbing memories. If he played this "game," whose hands was he really playing into? 
They
 had promised a life of wealth and comfort, a life which now seemed like nothing more than a pleasant dream, barely remembered. It was tempting. But what if he lost the game? What if the promise was just a promise? Promises could so easily be broken. . . .

I have to find out more
, thought Godfrey.

*   *   *

Seated at a nearby internet cafe, Godfrey hovered his fingers above the keyboard like pale, twin spiders preparing to pounce on their prey. He glanced over at the crumpled paper and looked at the first name.

Michelle Sanchez. He typed it into the search bar and punched the return key. Instantly, thousands upon thousands of pages scrolled down the screen. Godfrey took a deep breath and dragged his eyes down the page, trying to find one that stood out, one that could have a connection to "the game."

Nothing. There were too many people with the name Michelle Sanchez. How could he possibly know which one was the right one?

Never mind. He hadn't expected it to be that easy.

Let's try another name.

His eyes flicked back to the paper and landed on the name that was haloed in a bloom of coffee. Tony Blake. It sounded like an English name, perhaps American. His spider-hands skittered across the keyboard and soon the computer was bringing up another long, long list of sites. But again, there were too many. The name was either too common, or the man was not famous enough. Or maybe he was up there, camouflaged among the hundreds of other Tony Blakes that were just people somewhere or nowhere.

This is impossible,
 thought Godfrey. He stared blankly at the mesmerizing white screen. Then he typed another name into the computer just to see...

Godfrey De Vries. It wasn't difficult to find himself among the other Godfreys. In fact, it was frighteningly easy. Of course he knew what he was looking for, but his court cases and his recent escape from prison stood out like glaring red flags. And then it struck him: What if this was all backwards? What if the nine people on the list were out to kill him?

Were there people who wanted him dead? Probably. He hadn't been particularly scrupulous as a banker and businessman and he knew that he had ruined a lot of people in his time. But then, who gave him the note? Why not just kill him then?

Godfrey glanced inadvertently around him. The other people in the cafe were staring into their computers like so many hypnotized thralls. He turned back to be hypnotized by his own. It didn't make sense. He needed to know more: something, anything, that would give him some sort of clue about what the hell this all meant.

His fingers clacked across the keys once more. He would try all the names.

Kamali Ncube. There weren't a lot of them. There 
was
 an architect in Zimbabwe that might be worth following up on. Godfrey circled the name on his list with a stubby pencil. And then there was Ebisawa Hitomi, another more unique name; a Japanese celebrity who had sung some foreign pop song a while back. Another circle for the list.

And then there was Thiago Torres. It was a common enough name in Latin America, but right at the top of the list was a possible lead. Godfrey took a moment to employ an internet translator and his heart stuttered in his chest.

Thiago Torres — DO YOU WANT TO PLAY A GAME?

It was so blatant, so obvious. This man wanted to be found. This man had paid to put up a site that was like a beacon to Godfrey. Godfrey knew he would have to tread carefully around this: It could be a trap. It was probably a trap.

Godfrey swallowed, then clicked on the site.

I'm not sure if I want to play yet,
 thought Godfrey, 
but it's about time I learned the rules.

