Title: The Tyrant

Description: Deep beneath the earth, since before anyone can remember, slaves have worked in a vast factory for an unseen master.  Now, one of these slaves has hatched a plan to escape. Who is the tyrant? And what will this slave do when he finally obtains his freedom?


Chapter 1: The Tyrant

My father was a slave as was his before him and his before him going back time immemorial. Likewise with my mother and so it was with me. We were born into slavery, just another commodity to the tyrant, just another cog in his vast machine, meaningless and replaceable.

My mother was a towering brute of a woman, huge and strong with a sloped forehead and solid, flat brow. Not an attractive woman by any means, but a rarity amongst the inbred and diseased, a jewel of strength shining in a mire pit of weakness. She had large, strong arms and could carry her own weight in metal or timber without breaking a sweat, so I'd been told - I'd never seen her out of her bed. No doubt that was why she was there, chosen for a prize role in the breeding farms. A queen bee to spawn another generation of workers until she was a burnt out and empty shell.

I visited her when I could, in the brief breaks from the unending, back-breaking labour we all had to endure. I don’t know why I did, she knew me barely at all, much like my father. There were so many of us, churned out one after the other in great farms and put to work as soon as we were able that such a thing as family didn’t exist, we were products, produce to be harvested and when we had ripened we were packed and shipped off. We weren’t children, we didn’t have parents. We’re all just products on an assembly line.

The only person any of us might truly call father is the tyrant, though we never speak his name and certainly never think to call him that where eager ears might hear and pass it on for a meagre hour away from the assembly lines. The factory is a vast workhouse of deceit, backstabbing and treachery and why wouldn’t it be when we have nothing to live for, when any chance for even the slightest amount of time off from the work we do must be claimed immediately before someone else does. There is no loyalty here, as I said, family is a myth, a fairy story. There is only work and betrayal and nothing more.

Most of us have never seen the tyrant, he doesn’t deign to sully himself in the factory pits. I like to pretend he avoids us out of fear, that he knows that if he should ever show himself our vast, broken horde would snap under the stress and pile down upon him, tearing him asunder. I know that really it’s because we’re nothing to him, not worthy of his time but that hate gives me hope, drives me on. I wont become a soulless thing, my spirit crushed, not like the others. I know there is freedom somewhere out there beyond these smoke filled caverns echoing with the sound of machinery running endlessly. 

I’m different to the others, that much was clear when they selected me all those years ago for the advanced training. Soon after one of us is born, we’re taken to the labs, analysed, processed, categorised. Our aptitude taken, our potential, our mental and physical capabilities measured and stored and then we are assigned to one training regimen or the other before we are integrated into the work force. I was given specialist training with only a few others, my intelligence and manual dexterity being abnormally high. The black, metallic machines trained me endlessly, pumping my mind with images, blueprints and diagrams, techniques of science and craftsmanship. The factory needed to produce more and more high tech equipment, requiring more and more specialist skills and tools and so ones like me were prized commodities, an elite few cultivated for creating the very finest products that mere knuckle-dragging brutes like my mother could never attain.

Some of us are too smart however, we don’t just accept the lies, we don’t let the indoctrination, the brainwashing take hold. I’m one of those and so far I’ve been lucky, I’ve avoided being taken to the furnaces for incineration where others have not been so lucky, if another day in this hell can be called luck. With the skills I’ve been given, I’ve begun planning my escape. We’re monitored constantly, the drones buzzing angrily in the air and peering at us with their unreadable lenses but I’ve found away to avoid them, to reprogram a few. With the knowledge they’ve given me, I’m taking them apart and rebuilding them with a few improvements. I can’t take anyone with me, I can’t trust anyone. I’m alone and I can’t help but wonder if all of this hasn’t happened before, if there hasn’t been someone from the ranks just like me that broke free. After all, we’d never hear of such a thing, in all this vast horde there has never been one report of escape, not even an utterance of defiance, no hint of fallibility in the tyrant. Information is power, that’s something I’ve learnt myself, and the tyrant keeps his grip on power very tightly indeed.

Soon, my plan will come to fruition. Over the last years of careful monitoring I’ve learnt a few things. The furnaces that double as huge funeral pyres for the dead have a weakness. Beyond the vast extractor fans that suck up the ashes and the fumes lies a vast network of tunnels. Most of them lead back to refineries, processing the waste for reuse elsewhere but in but a fraction of cases the fumes find there way somewhere else, somewhere not on any blueprint or any map. Somewhere up high above us all, beyond the factories and breeding farms and funeral pyres there is a place where the fumes can flow freely and it’s there I intend to go. Even if it means my death, I’d rather die free than just another piece of fuel for the tyrant’s fires.

I’ve taken control of one of the drones, made room inside it for my small frame. Soon, very soon now, I’ll be flying through those tunnels towards my fate, whatever that may be.

Chapter 2: The Pipes

I'd earned myself an hour of free time away from the workshop, away from the toiling over circuitry and high-grade electronics. I'd reported one of my fellow elite and he was dragged away screaming. Whether he was guilty or not, I didn't care - today was the day I would ascend from this wretched place and I needed the distraction.

Slipping secretly into the shadows I summoned my co-opted drone and told it to meet me at the funeral pyres. Yes, I could have flown inside the drone, but its power is limited and it was only prudent to save as much as possible for the road ahead, especially since I'd already removed some of its batteries to accommodate me inside.

Walking to the pyres, it was hard nor to break into a panicked run, to resist glancing about fearfully. A single mistake now and the hard months of research and careful preparation would be in vain and I'd be up for torture or worse, the living death, my body slaved to a computer while my mind looked on in horror as I mindlessly worked the assembly lines until my body could take no more.

Each step I took was measured, my face carefully composed to mirror the sea of brokeness and defeat around me and before long I had reached the pyres. There was no longer the time to get back to the workshop before my hour was up so punishment was inevitable. It was now or never.

Again, I summoned the drone and for one sickening moment I feared it wouldn't come until I saw it rise over the mound of bodies slowly charring in the fires, its insectile carapace of black metal shimmer in the heat. I gave it one final check to ensure the tools I'd added were still functioning and satisfied I stepped inside. There were no goodbyes as I began to ascend towards the fans, no looking back. That haze of metal and burning flesh would

be the last I would ever see of this place.

The huge fan spun lazily above me, a terrible red maw, like an open wound in the world hanging above me through the tinted lenses of the drone. I could not afford to stop its endless spinning, that would bring other droves to investigate. Instead I timed the passing of each blade, spinning around and around and flew forwards through the gap, the sheet of grime-encrusted metal sweeping past behind me with a disappointed sigh as I narrowly avoided becoming its victim.

It was unbearably hot in the venting duct, the heat was slowly cooking me, turning the drone into a flying oven. In mere seconds I was drenched in sweat and knew I didn't have long before heat stroke would claim me. I ventured further into the tunnels, bringing up the ducting blueprints on the drones internal display.

As I progressed the tunnels became smaller and cooler as they siphoned away hot gases to be recycled. On several occasions I had to unscrew the pipes from the inside and move carefully through the confined maintainence area beyond to bypass filters and other fans and grills, making sure to replace each piece behind me as I went so no-one would suspect my passing.

Eventually my goal flashed up upon the monitor the final duct which lead beyond the blueprints and maps and perhaps, just possibly, to the freedom I sought. As I turned the final bend my heart was

beating madly in my chest and then what I saw made my heart sink.

It was gone, the exhaust pipe wasn't there. Desperately, I looked for any sign it had been covered up, that maybe if I just searched hard enough it would be hidden behind some panel but there was no such thing. The blueprints had been out of date. I'd been played and now I would die here, alone with only my sense of failure to accompany me. I felt sick, dizzy, the shock of my defeat had knocked the wind out of me.

Suddenly, I became aware of a distant clicking, a tapping of metal on metal as something approached. It had to be another drove, come to investigate, had this been a trap all along? How could I have been so blind?

The clicking got louder and I was soon proven right. It was another drone. It stopped as it saw me and I almost fled, but something stopped me; it was just sat there watching. Perhaps the tyrant liked to watch through its eyes before it played with its food. There was a hiss of static, then a voice.

"If you have made it this far, then you are nearly there. There is still hope. This is a recorded message from another traveller, another seeker of freedom. I made it here to find the blueprints outdated but do not lose hope. There is another way. Follow this drone and good luck my brother or sister. May you see the light above the world."

Another escapee! A successful one! Could it be? I wanted to believe it was true but it could be a trap. After all, why would an escapee help another and risk leading the tyrant to his new home? Better to betray and remain hidden. The drone was old and outdated and I had to hope that perhaps this message was from another time, a time when such vile thoughts were not second nature. What choice did I have? I followed the scuttling drone deeper into the tunnels.

We wandered for hours before we finally reached a grill opening out to a dimly lit hall. The drone played another message in harsh, distorted whispers.

"This is where we leave you traveller. This grill takes you to the tyrant's surveillance and server farms. In the main server room is a coolant duct leading to the outside, you can verify it on your blueprints."

I checked my blueprints and saw that it was so, though given what had brought me here I was not reassured.

"I end this message now as I attempt this escape. I hope I succeeded and that this message will not lead you into his clutches. Good luck traveller. This drone will now return to guide others that seek freedom."

With a final crackle of static it turned around and left. Despite my instincts, I didn't try to stop it, to trash it so it could not give me away. I didn't come from a time where such kindness existed, I couldn't bring myself to destroy the last vestige of it in this world.

Chapter 3: You Better Watch Out

The grill was small and soon I realised I would have to leave the safety of my drone and head out on my own to be able to fit through it. The thought of being exposed and helpless in those corridors made me shudder but again, what choice did I have? To turn back now would be suicide.With a hiss the drone opened and I shimmied into the pipe and began dismantling it. First I stripped it of the tools I'd added, I was sure I'd need my	screwdrivers and blow torch again, for weapons if nothing else. The rest I discarded except for the small computer terminal inside which I removed and tucked into a satchel with the rest of the tools. The traveller had mentioned server rooms so there was a chance it might be required.Satisfied with my haul, I pushed the discarded remains of the drone aside, out of view of the grill and began unscrewing it from the inside. The last screw I loosened enough so I could rotate the grill, it hanging downwards against the wall instead of falling and drawing attention. Peering out, it was a long drop from the top of the wall to the floor, at least ten feet, just over three times my height. I cursed myself for not bringing rope. Resigned to my fate, I lowered myself from the hatch, hanging down by my fingers until I could go no lower. I took a deep breath and then let go, bracing myself for the fall. I landed badly and there was a sharp crack as the terminal in my bag hit the ground and slid out, skittering across the floor until it hit the far wall. It was ruined, useless now, but I couldn't just leave it here. I'd still need to take it with me.Luckily, I was mostly unscathed. My ankles and spine hurt, but I'd avoided any major injuries and for that I was thankful, a feeling I had rare opportunity to experience. I picked up the bag and the broken computer and headed in the direction I thought was right. Without my computer I had no access to the blueprints so I had to work from memory.The corridors were featureless, grey and possessed of an unnatural luminescence that lit up the halls in sickly, pale light. Along the walls were periodically placed doors, huge, at least 6 foot high and I wondered what manner of creature they were designed for, perhaps the same ones that used the products of the factories, for we could not help but notice that everything from clothes to books were far too large for our own frames. As I passed each door they slid silently open, triggered by some unseen mechanism or sensor, to reveal rooms beyond lined with computers in chilled cases. As I approached one room, I began to hear noises, a monotonous, electronic voice repeating the same two words over and over with no obvious pattern."Naughty. Nice. Nice. Nice. Naughty. Nice. Naughty. Naughty. Nice. Naughty..."Possessed suddenly by curiosity and emboldened by the absense of any	guards or drones, I peered inside the room from which the sounds were emanating. The walls were lined with monitors and faces flickered across them rapidly, some flashing red, some green to coincide with a "Naughty" or "Nice". There must have been at least a thousand in this room alone and countless other rooms like it in this complex. It was clear they were part of some surveillance system and at first I thought I'd found a monitoring station for the workshop, but the pictures, they made no sense.

The people in the pictures looked odd, like me, but not like me. They were tall, impossibly so and their ears smooth and round. I watched them smiling and laughing and doing things I had no way of recognising and then I saw one of them flash red as one took something from another in secret, a theft of some electronic gadget and I realised I recognised it. These were the people we worked so hard for! These were the consumers of the goods the tyrant brutally enslaved us for, and he was watching them, all of them. If this room was any indication of their number, they must be many in number indeed, thousands, perhaps millions of them, all being judged by the tyrant.

I stood transfixed by the screens, watching their strange lives playing out in brief moments flickering across screens for what seemed like hours. Presently, I managed to tear myself away from the screens, unaware of just how long I'd been there and cursed myself for my foolishness. Answers didn't matter, I had no time for them. The mystery of this place and those people would have to remain as such if I were to survive.

Chapter 4: The Corridors

I exit the room and continued walking down the luminescent corridors, away from the fading electronic voice. But the two words still rang in my ears, eerie and haunting. There was something about the two words -
Nice. Naughty
, that sent a chill down my spine. And the creatures I had seen on the screens, were the stuff of my nightmares. I walked keeping a safe distance from the doors, not wanting to open any other doors by accident.

Nice. Naughty.

I quickened my pace, half-running. I needed to get out of these halls, away from all this. I didn't want to know what really happened out here, I only wanted to get as far away from it as I could. Far enough to catch my breath, rest a while, and then probably hope to imagine a life without fear.

I looked back to see if I was being followed. Nothing. I didn't spot any movement, or hear any loud sounds. I had never known that a world could be this silent and so empty. There was none of the groans or clanks of machines, only a soft hum which I realized was coming from the walls.

Every corridor seemed to look the same now. Gray, bland and cold. I ran my hands on the smooth walls, and felt the hair on my body stand. There was something alien about all of this, and I felt uncomfortable in the midst of it all. The large redundant emptiness around me only added to the discomfort.

I feared that I might be lost, and could feel my heart pounding. I was scared, and alone in this strange labyrinth of halls.  I wondered if the halls had been made this way as a sick joke, the tyrant's way to drive anyone who dares to escape insane.

By now the map was forgotten, and I was too tensed to even attempt to bother with it. I realized that it had been many hours since I was gone, and if the stories were true, someone would soon be sent after me. The Hunter, they called him. Back down, we had heard stories of him, over our gruel on tired sweaty nights. None of the stories had happy endings. I quickened my pace even more, looking around for any signs of an exit.

As I hurried past yet another corridor, I sensed a change in the environment. The walls were less cold and the soft hum had reduced to a haunting silence. The doors were absent down a corridor to the right. It seemed to lack any purpose but to lead me somewhere, unlike the others I had walked through. I walked through it, and at the end of the corridor, saw a large red door - very different from the others I had seen.

It was a risk I had to take. As I stepped towards it, the door slid opened and the brightest light that I had ever known blinded me. And as I stood there screening my eyes, I felt a gentle warmth enveloping me. At that moment, something snapped in my head and I felt happy, happier than I had ever been

