Title: The Psychopath's Self-Help Guide

Description: Christian is a psychopath. He isn't a serial killer or a murderer though. Indeed, Christian would sadly shake his head at your feeble preconceptions of the term. No, Christian writes self-help books for people like you, people trapped inside their own worlds, looking out through tinted windows seeing only a distorted version of the real truth. Christian can help you.


Chapter 1: The Psychopath's Self-Help Guide

Now, this isn't to say I'm better than other people, that would be, quite frankly, unnecessary. If anyone were to examine the facts with any measure of honesty they would find themselves compelled to agree that I am, in fact, superior in nigh on every way.

Now, one might be inclined to view this as arrogance, the accusatory refuge of the insecure, and in doing so not only prove my superiority by resorting to such childish self-delusion but also demonstrate their complete misunderstanding of an essential truth.

Facts are facts, ineffable and immovable. They need no respect, no acknowledgement. They need not be modest nor accommodating. Facts merely are and by virtue of their very nature, are truth - demonstrated in physical and/or abstract reality.

As such, to deny my claim is ridiculous as it would be to try to fly by tying lead weights to one's feet. It is not an opinion, I am a fact, a universal constant and as such any argument against me is rendered invalid.

Now do not assume this to mean that I am claiming to be perfect. Far from it, though perfect, despite it's implications, is a subjective term and I deal only in the objective truth. There are many skills I do not possess that others have, there are many qualities I do not possess. I am not rich, I am not powerful.

Then what, you may ask, allows me to justify such claims of superiority as I present? There you would be making another self-evident mistake - to think an absolute truth requires justification. Would you ask the number one to justify why it comes between zero and two? No, of course not, unless you were the lowest form of imbecile. It is just truth, certainty beyond reason, beyond justification.

So, what is the purpose of this text? You may incorrectly think it a piece of literary self-indulgence, a form of textual masturbation for the ego.

You would be wrong.

This is a journey into the soul, the mind, the truth of existence. This is peeling away the chrysalis of your old perceptions and beliefs and allowing you to fly free in a new world, a better world, unrestrained and beautiful, high above the crawling grubs and worms. With a surgeons scalpel I ply myself to your soul, cutting away the unnecessary, the dirt and the filth unless there is nothing left but that pure white centre that resides in the heart of all of us, that undeniable truth, that fact.

I am better. You can be better too.

Chapter 2: Open your mind

You seem unsure. Oh, I sense that and I believe that to be completely unnecessary. It would be insulting to most, to not be taken seriously, but I cannot care to pretend to feel the same emotions that others do. Pretense is the refuge of the weak, of the inferior, of the ones who cannot live in a world of reality and truth. I can barely see your naked soul, cluttered as it is with redundant emotions. Decades of indoctrination and weaknesses have forced you to wear coloured glasses, which you now fear to get rid of and see the world for what it is, in all it resplendent beauty. And I can assure you, you have missed out on a lot. Beauty is not subjective, as many may claim. It is absolute and a function of the universe and everything in it. Only because you fail to compute the function, do you assume it to be subjective. We shall get back to that, but we need to first establish if I have your undivided attention.

Discarding the uncertainty is never easy. Many have tried and failed. But it is often the first step, and for many the only step. Because this step means you have accepted the truth and seen reality. And if not seen it, at least opened your mind to the logical consistent idea of objective truth, one that does not waver with the changing currents of social norms and tired advertising jingles.

People like me are few, unchanging constants in a world of flux. I look down at you, as you look down upon an ape. 'Evolved' is the word you use but you never did evolve. Certainly not. I thus dare not use such absurd terminologies. For the moment, I shall only claim to be 'refined', having freed myself from the old rotting waste that stick to your soul. The same filth that your soul absorbs until is but a wasteland of lies and despair. All of you hold it in, unable to let it go. The burdens of the past, the weight of emotions, the redundancy of societal conformity or just the agony of incomplete lives.

I am free. I am cleansed. And I offer this gift to you too. Let me preempt your next question. Why do I care? What do I have to gain? Allow me to start from the beginning.

