Title: The Traveller's Children

Description: The story of the great traveller's children, the children of the over God who willed the multi-verse into being and seeded each empty void with his children so that they may make a universe as they see fit.


Chapter 1: The Traveller's Children

The Traveller, as he called himself, had seen much. Many worlds, many races, many vast and infinite universes of laws in all modes and matter. The Traveller walked the infinite void which he himself created and in his loneliness and boredom sought to find himself a diversion on his never ending journey.

Many a time in his past, if time could be said to even exist for the Traveller, who travelled the void where time was meaningless, he had crafted children of his own essence and set them free to work upon an infinite void sat on one of the many infinite layers of the multi-verse he walked. The laws and worlds and races they had made and he had watched them grow triumphant and fail, defeated and decayed. They played their games and lived their lives and he watched, a silent father, never involved except for one thing.

The rules, they would obey them or suffer his wrath. The Traveller was more than just a watcher, he was a judge and he while he would take no control over the domain of his children, his children were his and so they would obey.

Each one may make an Act within the void, a decree of intent and have it become so but they would only do one, a single act, once. The children would take their turns, it was only fair, making their single acts to craft the universe and it's laws. They could choose to abstain and thus save their acts for a later time, up until they had three, and enact them all at once, for greater and more fine control over their realm.

For an act was a blunt instrument, a simple tool. One sentence, one law, a single statement or decree. The powers of creation were raw and untamed and anything more would bring chaos. The Traveller would not allow that, and any child that sought to over step their bounds would suffer greatly at his wrath. Thus, his role as judge would be complete.

As Acts were made, he would take a measure of them and when that measure came to such a size, he would send the children to sleep in the universe they had created, to see what the course of time would take on their worlds without them. After a time, they would re-awake to take their places as Gods once again but universes are living, breathing things - the Traveller had long since learned this - and they must be allowed the freedom to grow every so often beyond the touch of Gods and the Gods, his unlearned children, they must have time to learn the consequences of their actions and so after a number of Acts he felt was fair, each Aeon would come to a close and the Gods would sleep, to wake up to the consequences of their Acts.

He had played this Game before, the Traveller, and he knew that it was good and so he began the crafting of new children, another Game to watch, to play and to enjoy.

Chapter 2: The Beginning of Time

The Traveller started as he always did when he started the game. In his fists he took up the very essence of nothingness itself, the Void Incarnate and breathed into it, infusing it with his essence, kneading and moulding the balls of non-stuff like dough. He could feel limitless potential building in each one, the perfect expression of potential - the Void - given life and stirring into being. Before they had a chance to take form and become tainted by his presence, he dropped them into their universe, their playground and eternal prison to let them grow untainted and unrestrained in that infinite dark.

The first of his children began to take form, the emptiness of their void-stuff gaining hue and mass and in a burst of light, quickly extinguished by the hostile nothingness of the Void, his first child awoke and named itself, claiming it's domains in it's first words. "I am Aqualuna", she cried and she shone in the dark, a being of ethereal moonlight, "and I claim Light and Life and Sentience as my domains."

Thus, the first of the Traveller's Children was born and the Traveller looked on, indifferent but not without interest as he other spawn began to grow.

The next egg of non-stuff cracked, spilling forth an immense, complex entity whose form took up more than the mere 3 conventional spacial dimensions. It's shape cast a three dimensional shadow, the shape of a vast spider and in the darkness it hissed it's name and claimed it's domains. "I am Ixilixi", it cried, "and I claim the domains of Time,  Destiny and Arachnids!"

The traveller said nothing but looked on with interest, keen to see how the dynamic of his offspring developed and what they would do next. As he watched and the other's waited, yet another ball of non-stuff morphed and took a form. As it took it's shape, it cried out "I am Mylann, I claim the domains of Love, Freedom and Beauty!" and her shape was that of something enshrouded in flames, eternally burning. 

The Traveller merely nodded in acknowledgement from beyond the universe and continued to watch. Now three of his children had taken their place at the beginning of time and he saw that it was good. This universe looked promising but he dared not yet make a judgement, many a universe had he left in his wake, broken and burnt were his children had not faired well in the tasks and his game had not played out well. It was all part of the fun though, the Traveller knew all too well the pleasure of the journey over the destination and thus he moved eternally, from one universe to the next, seeding it with his spawn and watching their journey as he did now. In his musing, he watched as the next God burst forth into the Void and announced itself to the world.

"I am Malachi and I claim dominion over Earth, Force and Experimentation!" A voice cried out as a blur of swirling, eddying light and gas took form from the void-stuff.

The Traveller was pleased thus far and watched, waiting for his final two children to emerge from their pupae. Soon, he would begin his work, putting into motion the universe so that his children could Act and start their journey as true Gods of this realm.

Erupting from the void-stuff like a comet came the next child, yelling forth it's name and laying claim to it's domains "I am Ishka and I claim weather, water and water life as my domains!". It flexed it's tail, one moment the form of a seal, the next another aquatic lifeform from the memories of the Traveller's journeys that he had imbued his children with.

Quickly after, the sixth and final God emerged, an ageless, tall, pale woman, her eyes sea-green and sparkling, her body clothing in virgin white. "I am Maraena!" Was her birth-cry "and my domains are the Sea, Wind and Purity!"

The Gods floated in the void for a while, and the Traveller let them be, content to let them take in the magnitude of the work at hand and to learn of each other. When he was satisfied he spoke unto them, and the void echoed with his words.

"O Children of the void, children of my breathe, life I have given you and purpose. This shall be your realm forever more, to do with as you see fit. Born you were with the laws of Godhood etched upon your minds and you would do well not to question them or test them for to do so is to test me, your creator and I am old and lacking in patience. Test me and meet your wrath. Now, before you may go forth, let my put your universe in motion with my final Act, after which you are free to do what you will. Good journey my children, go forth, Act, and do me proud."

The Traveller thus ended his speech and moments later spoke again, this time unto the universe itself. "I put the universe in motion, the laws of cause and effect in play, let one moment follow the next and every Act progress the universe ever forward! As my first and final act,
I create Time
!"

Chapter 3: In which the void is filled

Ishka looks to the void and sees, in the mind's eyes, a vast spanning body of water, fading green to grey to blue, allwise from edge to edge, apart from a thin sliver at one side. And so, it becomes.

Ishka fills the universe with water, apart from a thin section at the 'top' which remains as void.

Chapter 4: Malachi - Flow

Malachi did look upon his sibling's creation with interest, for here was a medium in which innumerable possibilities could be made real. His mind's eye saw great vortices and whirlpools, endless streams of water, minute eddies and vast expanses of calm, if only existing to constrast such glorious motion. The first ACT he did make upon the new world would be to set it in motion.

Malachi attempts to cause widespread motion in the water by application of pressures.

Then he did sit back, and wait to see what happened.

Chapter 5: Aqualuna  - Three Moons

Aqualuna surveyed the darkness of the void, and felt the dense cold and loneliness of it. She wished to create light, but in order to do that, she needed sources for that light.

She put her two hands together, until the tips of her fingers touched. Inside the space between her hands, she imagined a ball of liquid water. She moved her hands apart, and then let go of  the expanded body of what she hoped would become her first moon.

She put her hands together again, then imagined a ball of ice, which expanded into what she wished would become her second moon.

A third time she put her hands together, and a ball of water vapour formed between her hands. As she moved her hands apart, another body formed to become what she wanted to become her third moon.

The purpose of these three moons would be to shed reflected light from their surfaces out into the void in the form of moonlight.

ACT
 :  Aqualuna tried to create three moons consisting entirely of water in all three of its forms.

Chapter 6: Ixilixi - The Wait

Ixilixi looked at the other Gods with awe, for its siblings were splendid beings. 

It watched them as they studied the void, and cheered wildly as they each made their Acts.  For while it could spin yarns in the fabric of space-time, there was nothing it could do in the void. A void in time is but a lonely empty road of nothingness. And it is awfully hard to be creative when all you have all time in the world to play, but nothing to play with.

So instead it decided to only observe his kin and the consequences of their Acts. For the other Gods, were the only ones who's actions it could not predict, as they worked outside of Time itself. It was their actions which would create space and matter, and along with it create new futures and altered time-lines.

And so it waited, confident that the wait will bring with it a lot of new possibilities.

Chapter 7: Mylann - The Sun

Mylann looked on her sibling’s creations with secret disgust. They were all so cold and lacked colour. Just observing what they had fashioned so dexterously made her whole form quiver. The darkness that surrounded her made her feel so very desolate.

She watched curiously as her sister, Aqualuna, attempted create free moons. They emitted an eerie arctic blue light that seemed as though it belonged inside the void. It left her breathless as she drunk in their beauty.

Then idea occurred to her, hitting her with an incredible amount of force that she floated away from Aqualuna. She found herself inside the darkest part of the void. With a scared whimper she blew her fiery breath into her hands and tried to mould the fire into a sphere of flames.

ACT
 : Mylann tried to create a sun out of her own breath.

Chapter 8: Maraena - Silver Droplets

Maraena watched in silence as her siblings created that small world. The three beautiful, pure moons with their silvery aura shone down upon the ever-changing waters, from which everything is born. The dry, harsh, fiery sun burned down with a heat that made Maraena shrink from it in fear.

And as Maraena watched, she realised that the world was still. The moons did not move in the black sky. The waters were calm, without ripples or waves.

'How can our world be alive,' she thought, 'if it always sleeps?'

And so she leaned forwards, scooping up a handful of water. She let it fall in four tiny, silver droplets, and as they did, she breathed out in one long, continuous breath.

Her breath took the droplets up into the very heart of the sky, turning them over and over, moulding them and breaking them until they could no longer be seen. And Maraena sighed as the water began to ripple, and a light breeze played upon her cheeks.

Maraena creates the four winds of the world

Chapter 9: And So the Universe Was Born

The Traveller watched as his children decreed their Acts and enforced their will upon the universe he had gifted them.

The first was Ishka and it filled void with water, flowing forth into the infinite depths of the Void. In all but one direction did it fill the Void, but without heat to nourish it, the water began to freeze and rapidly the universe began to become a solid, infinite block of ice, above which rose infinite void, though there was no true concept of up or down, merely of Void or Ice.

However, Malachi invoked his will upon the great, freezing sea of Ishka and created motion from nothingness. Thus, as the great sea froze, it was riddled with caverns and pathways through the ice where water moved constantly, propelled by the law of Malachi's will, and thus avoiding a much colder, stiller fate. Holes upon the surface of the infinite ice remained as eternally moving whirlpools, sucking anything into their maws and down into the infinite under-ice canals that rushed with the constant motion Malachi had bestowed.

The universe strained as Aqualuna commanded it to accept three moons, in each of the forms of water. By her Act of will, she commanded that each moon would exist in it's given state and so despite the cold, emptiness of the Void the liquid moon remained liquid, the gaseous moon gaseous, suspended in the Void above the infinite expanse of ice and water. There was yet no light in the universe, but when any should come into being, the moons would reflect it down upon the icy half of the universe, bathing but an infinitely small portion of it in their reflected light.

Ixilixi watched on, waiting for it's time to Act. For now, the stuff of which it had claimed dominion had yet to come to be and so instead it rejoiced in the Acts of creation and wonder it's siblings performed, taking in their splendor and waiting, watching, for it's time to come.

Mylann breathed out and with her divine breath brought the very first light and heat to the universe. A huge ball of divine fire burst into being in the previously pitch black universe, a single point of light in infinite darkness. The ball of flame hung in the Void above the infinite Ice-caverns of Ishka, melting the surface within range to a liquid which was quickly pulled into motion by neighbouring canals under the influence of Malachi's law. The moons of Aqualuna reflected the harsh brilliance of Mylann's fire with a gentler hue, soft moonlight shining from their surfaces and glitterings across the ice and freezing cold water that flowed eternally into the hidden, dark depths of the universe.

As Malachi had brought motion to the Sea of Ishka, so did Maraena then bring motion to the void. Taking the water that formed the very basis of this universe, she breathed out and let her breath carry it far and wide, filling the void with a fine, invisible mist, the motion of her breath keeping it mobile, and flowing throughout the universe and so the Void was no longer empty but full with Maraena's divine breath.

Chapter 10: Aqualuna Abstains

Aqualuna floated around in her newly adopted home of her water vapour moon, and bathed in the lovely reflected sunlight of her sister, Mylann's sun. Her heart swelled with pride in her siblings. She saw the water brought into being by Ishka, and knew that it was good.

She watched the universe for a bit, and knew that something was missing. Life was missing. There was nothing in this water and ice bound universe, or in the sun, or in her moons, that lived, or breathed.

She could bring life to something, but there was no something, not even a single cell in the water, to bring life to. She could not even create life in the waters of her own moons, because water life was Ishka's domain. She did not have the permission, nor the desire to create something in her sibling's domain, that hadn't already been created.

She searched for something that was not water based to create life on, or in, but there was nothing. There was no earth to fill with life, because Malachi had not yet created it, and she did not wish to create it herself, as a professional courtesy among the divine.

Aqualuna abstains from performing an act until one of her siblings creates something she can breathe life into.

Chapter 11: Malachi Abstains.

Malachi had spent his time deep underwater, revelling in the currents and flows of the newly created sea. Much as he would like to spend eons down there frolicking in whirlpools and eddies, the time soon came for him to ACT.

He hung above the sea, wondering how he was to begin to make real his ideas.

After a good deal of thought, Malachi had narrowed down the possibilities for his next move to three. Seeing as the grandest and most complex of his ideas would yield more spectacular results, and make it easier for him to achieve his desire in the long term, Malachi decided to wait until it was in his power to ACT twice, for his vision required two new concepts to affect the world simulaneously.

Malachi abstains for this turn.

Chapter 12: Images of Ixilixi

Ixilixi looked into the universe and felt lonely. It had watched its siblings, and had found them totally unlike it. It longed for a face or body that matched its own.

It would often enter the universe and gaze at its two-dimensional reflection on the ice, admiring the beauty of it all . The 8 appendages and shell would shine in the warm sun, and a shiny bluish reflection would gaze back.

It was in a moment of such lonely reflection, that it decided that its first Act would be to propagate its own image, the bluish reflection extended to the third dimension.It would only be a three dimensional approximation of its own real image but it would do for now.

So now when it, Ixilixi and its siblings, the other Gods would gaze upon the universe, they would see these beautiful images, alive and well, spinning yarns and patterns from the ice wherever they roamed.

Feeding off the waters that they would live in, these translucent blue reflections of Ixilixi would be made of the ice itself, but lent just enough of the breath of life to be able to replicate themselves.

Act : Ixilixi creates a billion self-replicating water-feeding ice-spiders in the image of its own reflection extended into a third dimension, all spinning yarns and patterns made of the ice.

Chapter 13: Ishka and the ice-spiders

Iska looks upon the spiders Ixilixi created from hir ice and finds them beautiful. Ishka watches as they scutter around and spilt into copies of themselves, but finds it oddly empty. Ishka compels the spiders to halt for a moment, then divdes them into two groups.

Gesticulating to the right, Ishka states: "You will be 'she'." Gesticulating to the left, Ishka then states: "You will be 'he'". Ishka then releases the spiders.

Ishka then seeks hir sisters Mylann and Aqualuna.

Aqualuna is found in her liquid water moon.

"Aqualuna, you see the creatures Ixilixi has created? You see how they are aimless in their eating and spinning? I would wish they had more to their lives. Will you grant them sentience and intelligence?"

While Aqualuna ponders the request, Ishka seeks Mylann, who is found dancing by her sun.

"Mylann," Ishka says. "Do you see the creatures our sibling Ixilixi has created? I find them beautiful - but lacking. They are aimless in their lives, so I have given them gender that they might procreate. However, I fear this is not enough. Will you teach them to love?"

 Finally Ishka returns to the waters, seeking Malachi. Ishka finds him pondering their universe.

"Malachi," Ishka says, "do you see the spiders Ixilixi has created? Do you notice how even though they spin and weave, it floats around to no purpose? Might you create directional forces so this universe has a definite 'up' and 'down' and all the other directions?"

Act: Ishka gives Ixilixi's spiders gender and thus the ability to procreate sexually.

 

 

 

Chapter 14: Mylann and Liquid Love

Mylann curiously observed the spider-like ice creatures that her sibling Ixilixi had created. She watched amazed as Ishka separated them into different genders and noticed a slight change in their behaviour afterwards. Ishka appealed to Mylann and asked her to bless these creatures with the ability to love and be loved. Mylann ponders for a few moments, and then she wearily agrees.

She would rather give love to creatures of warm blood and hearts than to ones formed from the ice, but she did not want to break peace with her siblings by sharing her doubt.

 

ACT: She attempts to spill her own goddess blood into a crevice inside the ice to make a drinkable Liquid Love.

Chapter 15: The Domain of Spiders

The Gods watched on as time passed and their universe changed and grew, choosing instead to wait rather than to Act, biding their time until such time passed that they could take further Acts of greater magnitude.

Ixilixi however was possessed of a profound loneliness and feeling apart from it's siblings sought to create life in it's own image. Spun of of ice and fuelled by water, the spiders of Ixilixi were made in great number and spread across the universe, replicating as they went, for it was their nature to do so, to weave not only patterns with the ice itself, but also to weave more of themselves by splitting apart, the two smaller halves growing to full size, a perfect copy of the original.

As time passed, the spiders spread far and wide - there was an infinite universe for them to explore and they wove huge webs that spread out into the Void Above, turning the air-filled emptiness into a gigantic mesh of ice. They did not spread forever though, as they needed water to survive, water which was only available in the Ice Below and so while their webs stretched high into the Void Above, they did not go on forever. The spiders spread along the surface of the Ice Below, concentrating around the holes where Malachi's will had forced the water to retain motion. Some ventured down into the water itself and lived submerged entirely, weaving their patterns underwater in vast submerged caverns. With nothing to stop them, the spiders spread indefinitely into and along the Ice Below.

While this was happening, Ishka watched on and felt an emptiness in the spider's form of propagation. Willing it so, Ishka gifted unto the spiders gender and with it a new form of propagation by sexual reproduction. Spiders from that point forth would have the ability to procreate with members of the opposite gender, whilst retaining their ability to self-replicate. The genders had no outward differences and the spider's had no drive to use this new ability over their existing instincts so the gift remained mostly unused, dormant. Some would use the gift and spider's created this way would share attributes of both it's parents, but all spiders being equal, this made little difference.

Mylann watched on and heeded Ishka's appeal that she might teach the spiders love. While she was hesitant to gift such a thing to such cold beings, she kept her peace with her siblings and using her own blood, she deigned a crevice in the Ice below carry another form of water, a Liquid Love that infused those who drank it with it's knowledge and feeling.

As the spider's progressed, there was one place the spiders could not go. Around Mylann's sun, ice would melt and being of the ice, so too would the spiders. Dumb and mindless, the spiders and their webs that came to close would melt back into water, the heat propelling the water away so that it would eventually cool again outside the reach of the harsh sun's rays. As time passed, the sun and the melted area beneath it in the Ice Below soon came to be surrounded by a solid shell of ice formed by the continual melting and re-freezing of spiders and ice that came too close. Inside this ice-bubble remained free of spiders, except for the few that ventured in from the under-ice water tunnels and those that did would melt just as their brethren had. The universe had become the domain of the spiders except for one last bastion around the sun. Even Aqualuna's moons were not safe - far enough out of reach of the sun, the spider's claimed them, integrating them into their vast and glorious webs, the liquid moon in particular serving them well, furthering their expansion into the void. However, the moon was not infinite and so the spiders eventually consumed it, the liquid moon of Aqualuna destroyed, only to live on in the few spider's that had consumed it.

This water was different from the great Ice Below though, for it was infused with Aqualuna's will never to freeze and so these spiders that had drunk it's waters found they never need drink again, the water within them continually liquid, powering the divine mechanisms within them that drove them to life indefinitely. This new race of spiders could replicate like their kin, but they did not pass on their holy water and so their offspring inevitably slowed and stopped as this small band of spiders spread out further into the Void Above which was too far away from water for their offspring to reach, the Void Above slowly becoming full of more webs littered with the frozen, still bodies of small spiders - not dead, but merely inactive until they could get some water to nourish them.

As the spider's made contact with the Mylann's blood, they drank it in until it was gone. Those spider's that took it in became yet another race, divergent from the original Ixilixian and the immortal, ever-moving Aqualunian spiders. As their new genders and the power of love interacted, the spiders found themselves attracted to one another. They interacted and began to care for one another, no longer treating themselves and each other as disposable, for none of their race were copies but new beings born of the fusion of two others, for the new Mylanni spiders bred only via sexual reproduction. Again, since all spider's were created equal, there was little difference between sibling and sibling or even sibling and parent. However, the Mylanni spiders stayed close together, not wanting to leave each other's company. While still dumb and unintelligent, the Mylanni spiders infused as their were with a divine love, developed a rudimentary set of new instincts. Filled with love, they would help those spider's that had fallen, spider's that had become caught in one of Malachi's currents and hurt or spiders that had ventured to far into the Void Above and run out of water. Powered as they were by the blood of a God itself, they like the Aqualunians did not run out of water power and were ever-moving and so they too ventured out into the infinite dark beyond the ice-sealed sun, following in the aimless wake of Aqualunians, picking up their discarded children and bringing them back to the water. They became caretakers and healers of those spiders that were left behind or injured.

Chapter 16: Mylann - Earth

Mylann smiled down at the Mylanni Spiders and observed their affectionate ways. She was disgusted at their icy and grotesque forms, nevertheless she felt more closely linked to these spiders. They were different from the others – more kind, warm-hearted and compassionate than the other ice spiders. It was their slight change in behaviour that sparked another idea in the goddess’ mind.

She glided over to the large water pool underneath the sun. It was a pleasant change from the vast white that surrounded it. Without hesitation she blew softly onto the pool and watched as it started to swirl, the turquoise meeting the blues, the greys and the soft greens.

Her sibling Malachi passed and questioned her actions.

“Brother,” she exclaimed. “I am creating land. Will you help?”

Malachi, curious by his sister’s action, listened to her gracious request.

“Would you be able to give my soil plant life?”

ACT: Mylann attempts to bring up an island from the depths of the pool that is complete with healthy soil and uncontaminated rivers. It is her hope that the Mylanni Spiders would migrate there and become adapted to the environment.

Chapter 17: Aqualuna - Life and Sentience

Aqualuna looked down on the land that her sister Mylann had been attempting to create, and was very pleased. She could put something alive on this land. She descended from her gas vapour moon, and walked on the fertile earth, knowing that it would be a good place for the new beings she wanted to create.

She held her arms wide and spread her fingers. She concentrated hard, and an essence made of water vapour poured from her fingertips. She moved her hands in a swirling motion, and the vapour took on a different form. From each hand she attempted to create a  body consisting of skin, bone, blood and organs, yet still largely composed of water.

She thought she might want these bodies to procreate, so she used her sibling, Ishka's gift to the universe, gender. She made the entity on the left female, and the one on the right, male. She breathed into each brain, sentience mixed with intelligence. Aqualuna looked at her new additions to the universe and gave them a name she wished them to keep – human beings. She wished them to love and take care of each other, so she asked her sister Mylann,

“Will you give your gift of love to my human beings, please? Without love, they will find no purpose to stay together, and therefore not procreate to become a race of humans.” She patiently awaited Mylann's answer.

Aqualuna knew that the humans would have to eat, so she hoped her sibling Malachi, would grant Mylan's request to put plant life on the land she had been trying to create.

As she smiled upon her new human beings, Ixilixies's warm water spiders crawled up on the land and watched the two humans. The spiders did not know what to do, because they could not yet think. Aqualuna blew forth a warm mist that landed on the spiders, and gave them sentience mixed with intelligence as well. She hoped the spiders and the humans would become friends, and co-exist equitably.

Act 1. Aqualuna attempted to create life in the form of human beings.

Act 2. Aqualuna attempted to give sentience mixed with intelligence to her human beings, and Ixilixie's spiders.

 

Chapter 18: Malachi - An up to grow toward.

Malachi swirled in his whirlpool often wondering how to grant his sibling's requests without undoing or impeding that which existed. To him, the loss of the water moon was strangely saddening, and was an example of how unforseen consequences were inevitable, despite the god's best efforts and intentions.

Inside the frosted enclosure he first attempted to understand what would happen if there was an attraction of all physical matter from the air toward the sea, a gravity in which to test forces and strengths. His initial thoughts were that, should the attraction be continuous into the endless depths of the ocean, the pressure would be so great the beautiful flows would stop, the rivers turn solid, the ice take all.

He cherished his deep grotto, and so the gravity would have to stop at the water's surface, that much was clear. then there was the question of the great webs spanning vast distances up into the void. Would they be able to take such strain? The last thing he'd want would be to send an endless shower of shards down upon sister Aqualuna's fragile creations. Yes, he saw the potential in those warm, fleshy creatures. He wondered if they and the spiders would get on with each other.

Anyway, should all go wrong, with the greatest gift of power all could again be set right in time.

ACT 1, Malachi brings into being a constant force of gravity stretching far into the void (several thousand sun-to-surface distances) down into the water for a half sun-surface span, that affects mundane and living matter, but not the celestial bodies.

(The force being not so strong as to destroy the webs, or to crush Aqualuna's humans, merely allowing them to stand etc)

Malachi blew a bubble, which was picked up by the current and swept spiralling through a crack between two great icebergs. That was more complicated than he'd hoped. Hopefully his ACT would do no harm, but his resourceful siblings will be able to cope, no doubt.

He slipped into a gentle stream and drifted surfacewards. The 'humans' require different sustenance to the spiders, being made of many more things, it appeared. Living things... so intricate. Malachi observed the humans in their formation, taking note of the many different things they were formed from. It seemed apparent that they would require more of these base materials, but how they are translated into bone and tissue? Aqualuna would understand. The shimmering light flitted over to his sister.

She did explain to him about such things as metabolism and digestion, how such complicated processes would create more 'human' from a few simple minerals and chemicals. So much more complex than Ixilixi's simple and slender spiders. Malachi was in awe, and duly he attempted his own version of life, to be called 'plants'. Life it appeared, was a very long and convoluted process of converting one type of matter to another, and back again in an endless cycle.

Seemed like "growth" was the done thing. They'd eat water, air and nutrients from the soils, he decided. Seeing the sun hanging above him, he thought perhaps he'd have them absorb a little of it's light, so they'd appreciate it as he did.

But the important question was of aesthetics, of course. Something nice and pretty for the humans to feed on, to begin with. Malachi didn't understand all this 'sentience' in made creatures fully, intriguing though it sounded. Perhaps they'd be able to appreciate his handiwork rather than just take it like the spiders. That sounded nice.

He set about formulating his next ACT.

Act 2 - Malachi attempts to create plant life in the form of leafy fibrous vines which as they grow slowly twist together in great archs and spirals, producing various bright flavoursome fruits which hang on slender vines.

Malachi drifted skyward to observe, rippling and pulsing with anticipation.

Chapter 19: Maraena - the Purest of Intentions and the Cleanest of Waters

Maraena had watched and waited as her siblings created the icy spiders, unable to gift them anything of hers. They were cold, spindly, delicate and beautiful - but not anything of hers. She could give them nothing.

But now... These strange fleshy humans, so warm compared to the coldness of the ice spiders, held some strange fascination for Maraena. But what could she gift them? They needed food, which they had; they needed a home, which they had; they needed warmth and light, which they had - what could she possibly bring them?

Quietly, she examined their brains, their thoughts. They were intelligent - oh yes - so intelligent. But what would they use their intelligence for? Good or evil? She shivered at the thought of what these creatures could do to that beautiful universe if they used those fearful minds of theirs for anything but goodness.

And so she took them - first the male, then the female - holding their chins cupped in her hands, staring deep into their eyes. And she gave them the purest of intentions, so they could only work good in this world of theirs.

ACT: Maraena gives the humans the gift of purity
.

Pleased with her work, Maraena stood back, watching as the humans began to explore their earthy world. Her wind ruffled their hair, her seas, as familiar to her as her own body, lapped at their island. But she knew - her sea was not good for them. It would not protect them.

And so she made a small hole in that earth, and poured into it water droplets from her hair, until it was full of a tiny sea.

Then she turned to her brother Ishka, and spoke to him: 'My brother, I need your help to create water in which life can flourish - water which has no salt and is good for drinking.'

And she watched carefully as Ishka made his reply.

ACT: Maraena attempts to make a freshwater pool.

Chapter 20: The Spider God Rests

Ixilixi was content. The universe teemed with its images and no matter where it looked, it saw its own images scaling the universe, leaving trails of their intricate ice webs behind.It had already seen all of this in its journeys through time.

But as it watched its sibling's acts irrevocably change the timeline and the original Ixilixian spiders, it grew pensive and worried. No more were they of its image. The Mylian spiders especially. Enveloped in perverse emotions like love and no more united and singular in their features, they reacted in ways alien to it. And it did not like it one bit.

It watched as the Gods decided to create more life in the universe. Humans, they called it. Ugly and imperfect beings, but it knew that there was more to them than what met the eye.

It watched it all, and waited. Something wasn't right about all of this. It went ahead in time and saw nothing of worry. It was the acts that would ruin it for the spiders, its spiders. They were still its children. And itself  dared not act out of fear for them.

And so it waited and rested. Saving its Acts and strength to help them later.

Chapter 21: How ishka went from a grey seal to a white one

Ishka heard Marena's plea, and while it did not necessarily agree with her choice of life, decided that all life should have a chance in this place. So Ishka changed it's form, becoming water and descended into the pool Marena had made and drew away all that made it unfit for the humans, taking them into it's liquid form. Ishka then left the pool and returned to it's seal form. However, when it did so, all the salt and other impurities from the pool stayed in Ishka's form, changing it from a grey seal to a white one.

With that Ishka felt tired by all that had happned even though it had not been long from the last eon, so it said to Marena: “I will leave you for a while to reside in solitude and reflect upon all the changes we have wrought here. So long.” With that Ishka, turned back to water and went to dwell for a time in one of Malachi's eddies.

Act: Ishka helps Marena to make a pool of water fit for human needs, then will abstain from all acts until the end of November.

Chapter 22: The Dawn of Man

Mylann breathed her divine breath into the pool within the solar sphere and with it brought an immense island into being, a vast slab of earth rising from the water, large enough to accommodate several billion spiders if they could have ventured under the harsh rays of the sun. As it rose, it cracked and and splintered, forming huge ridges and clefts within it through which water flowed and pooled in rivers and lakes.

Aqualuna, seeing this new and wondrous land, sought to populate it with a new race borne of the water she so loved. Crafting them carefully she placed them upon this new, barren earthen land. Secondly, she sought to bestow upon both them and the spiders the gifts of sentience and intelligence, but such a feat was beyond her capabilities with a single Act and in his anger he ruled that her Act would work, but broken.

The humans would gain sentience, but they would never become intelligent, forever unable to learn or develop new skills but forever being aware of their own limitations.

The spiders however would gain intelligence, but would remain unaware, unable to think for themselves forever. Instead they could apply their new intelligence to improving and developing tools and techniques to further the goals of their instincts. For the Aqualunian spiders this was to subsume all of the infinite expanse of the universe into their vast webs. For the Mylanni spiders, this was to care for others, to heal and rescue. For the Ixilixian spiders, this was merely to survive and procreate. All three races would learn and develop as they honed their abilities to perform these tasks, but wouldn't ever be able to think about these problems or question why, performing and improving mindlessly for all time.

Malachi exerted his will on the very nature of reality, defining a new universal law. Gravity came into being, pulling down everything above the surface of the ice towards towards a plane several miles below. The only thing this did not effect was the divine, celestial bodies of the moons and sun. Under this new law, several of the spider's pathways shattered under their own weight, the spiders never having had a need to reinforce them. Some spiders fell for immense distances, shattering on the ground below, but, unable to die, they remained there, broken, intelligent pieces of ice, trying to act out their instinct to explore but barely able to do so. Over time, with their new found intelligence, the ice fragments from this shattered spiders learnt how to vibrate in order to move themselves and began crawling along the surface of the vast ice shelf, or others, entering the waters, used their vibrations to swim, becoming as fish formed of icy slivers, that sought out the unexplored depths of the infinite underground water caverns.

Malachi next created plant life on the earthen land that stretched and spiraled in the air, forming arches that beared rich fruits. The humans, dumb as they were, saw these fruits and delighted, but never thought to eat them, except on a whim. However, the never learned that eating the fruits were beneficial, lacking as they were in intelligence and so it was by mere chance that a human would survive, since they should only eat at random should the mood take them.

Maraena sought to enforce her ideals upon the humans, but sentient as their were by divine law, to restrict their freewill violated the laws of the Traveller - for he had deemed that no God should be able to override the law of another. As such, the Traveller enacted his wrath.

Instead of seeking to be good and pure, they would find themselves dispossessed of any inclination towards good or bad, completely amoral  and concerned only with themselves.

The water of the world had never been defined to contain salt, and thus Maraena's second Act did nothing and was not spent. Ishka, helping with this, also left it's Act unspent.

 

Chapter 23: Mylann - Hybrid

Mylann was devastated that these new creatures, though not children of her own, were unable to develop their intelligence. It was disheartening to watch them struggle to survive, and it was equally depressing to watch the spiders live without sentience. Being a Goddess who highly valued love, she wished that the Mylanni Spiders would procreate with these unintelligent beings. Hopefully then, those hybrids would be capable of intelligence, sentience and passion.

ACT: Try to get the Mylanni Spiders to reproduce with the most beautiful humans.

Chapter 24: Aqualuna's Humans

Poor Aqualuna withdrew to her water vapour moon, and mourned the unjust fate of her poor humans. She had aroused the wrath of The Traveller,  by using too many acts at once, but she had not meant to disobey the rules. She merely wished to do a favour for her sibling Ishka, who had asked:

"Aqualuna, you see the creatures Ixilixi has created? You see how they are aimless in their eating and spinning? I would wish they had more to their lives. Will you grant them sentience and intelligence?"

She thought that the instinct for survival was built into the bodies of her new creations, as part of being human, but apparently that was not the case. Aqualuna wept bitterly, for the cruel suffering of her humans as they starved, but did not die.

She truly appreciated Mylann's generous and caring attempt to turn the humans into a hybrid with the spiders, but they were two very different species. She did not know how a human with eight legs, or perhaps many other alterations to the body, could be happy. The humans were sentient, but not intelligent. They would be aware of their difference from the humans and the spiders that had not yet become hybrids, and be unhappy with themselves.

Aqualuna's heart bled for her gentle humans,  She could bear it no longer, so she attempted to withdraw her gift of life from the  two humans that she had created, by erasing them from existence with a  circular motion of both her hands.

Act: Aqualuna tries to erase the existence of the two humans she created in her last Act.

Chapter 25: Ixilixians look through Time

Ixilixi watched, amused at the acts and the wrath of The Traveller.

The humans seemed doomed to fail but there was now plant life. And it watched the plants growing, without showing any signs of ever pausing. And the spiders scaling these new live forms, some times integrating them into their own patterns of webs.

Of its children, now divided into 3 races, only the pure Ixilixians still held on to its true image. Unadulterated and innocent living ice. It smiled at them, and hoped they would know themselves. It wished to be recognized as their creator.

All the three had been given intelligence by Aqualuna and used it to further themselves. But Ixilixi decided that they should also know who they were, that they were its children. And then realize that some of them were  pure, while the others were impure.

It saw the great differences between the three races, and sought to give its original children a new gift. To give them the ability to look through time. A temporal vision where they could look at the past and the future.

It hoped this vision would some day allow the Ixilixians to survive against the caring and loving Mylannis and the immortal but aimless Aqualunians. They of course would have to learn and harness this new skill. It would take time but someday, hopefully, it would help them.

Act 1 : Give all the spiders sentience.

Act 2 : Give the Ixilixian spiders the ability to look through time.

Chapter 26: Malachi - Abstains

Looking down at the earth, a glimmering reflection in a great arc of ice, Malachi watched his siblings silently. It seemed as if there was more to being a god than He had thought. Mal had plenty of inspired ideas, but little idea of how to implement them. It would require more thought, and as He lay in colourful introspection, He concluded that there was no point in making a half-hearted act now when a little more hesitation and thought would yield a better plan and more power.

Malachi Abstains

Chapter 27: Maraena Abstains

As her siblings created and destroyed their acts, so Maraena looked on with sadness at their decisions. This world, that had begun to beautifully, was sullied by her siblings indecision. Unable to create any form of life herself, Maraena decided to make no move until she could use her strengths to build upon the moves of others.

Maraena abstains

Chapter 28: War Is Coming

Directed by Mylann's will, the Mylanni spiders sought to breed with the most beautiful of the humans. Of course, the spiders could not enter the sphere of warmth surrounding the sun, but using their intelligence, they found a way. The new landmass in the sphere shielded the water below from the harshness of the suns rays and so the spiders tunnelled up beneath it, quickly stealing away a human before the were melted by the sun. Unfortunately, at first the humans drowned as the spiders pulled them under the landmass, unaware that unlike themselves, they needed to breathe. However, they learned form this mistake and tried again, building a chamber of ice below the landmass full of air.

The humans, unintelligent but aware, knew something was wrong, that the most beautiful of their numbers were being snatched away by strange creatures and never returning and though they didn't understand what was happening, they feared the coming of the spiders. However, unable to learn, they were ineffective at escaping them and the spiders captured them and treated them kindly and with love in their underground icy cavern.

Being of different construction, the spiders and humans were previously incompatible, but given that the breeding was a divine edict, it became possible and soon the first race of hybrids were born.

The hybrids, creatures of ice and flesh combined, looked like slender, beautiful humans, lithe and pale skinned, their flesh semi-translucent and crystalline like the ice. Their faces where like those of a human, but surrounding the mouth were a pair of delicate, fine mandibles capable of fine manipulation and they had 6 eyes, 2 eyes like that of a normal human but two additional ones above and to the side of each human eye, pitch black and like the spiders they performed specialist functions, giving them greater peripheral vision and a greater ability to detect movement and light intensity. Where a human would have legs, their body terminated in a spider-like body with eight legs, giving them a centaur-like appearance.

Most importantly of all though, was the combining of intelligence and sentience. The spiders cared for their new young, infused as they were with love but the new hybrid race began to advance quickly, soon leaving the spiders behind, unneeded. They began to learn, aware of themselves and the world around them, learning that they were similar to both the humans and the spiders. As they realised that the spiders were unintentionally terrifying the poor humans by kidnapping them, they sought to stop it, infused as they were themselves with a sense of love and caring. The spiders of course, being non-sentient, obeyed only their instructions and carried on and so the hybrids as they were born and began interbreeding amongst themselves declared war against their mindless parents in a an effort to stop them from taking humans by force. Simultaneously, they tried to help the humans and teach them, but realised with great sadness they had no intelligence. For a time, they helped the humans and made them feel comfortable, guiding them to the spiders in such a way that they would not be afraid and gathering food for them in a vast breeding farm where they were treated well, fed and provided entertainment while the spiders carrried out their edict.

Then, suddenly, the humans disappeared. The new hybrid race were shocked, their ancestors suddenly erased from existence and the spiders, unable to carry out their edict, carried on with their old instincts, caring for things. The hybrids had until now had little need to procreate amongst themselves but now it was their only option and their fledgling society began to change. However, they'd had generations of experience of relying on others to breed for them and this mindset was hard fro them to abandon, so while they took to breeding together they turned their reliance elsewhere, instead using the spiders instinct to care to turn and domesticate the spiders into a race of child-carers and servants. The spiders were intelligent and still served their instincts and had no sentience, so didn't and couldn't feel one way or the other about the arrangement, but the hybrids, free from the mundane tasks of having to care for their young or worry about basic needs had the free time to develop their recreational activities as they began building a society based on fun and creativity, relying on the slave labour of the spiders who were perfectly happy to do it.

However, it was not to last.

As time passed, all spiders came to develop sentience and the Mylanni spiders, the slave caste of the hybrids society, realised they were being exploited. They didn't mind caring for the young of the hybrids, but over the generations the hybrids and come to rely on them more and more for the tasks they themselves didn't want to do. With their ability to reason, the spiders decided to leave, aware that the hybrids were perfectly capable of looking after themselves if they wanted to. Instead, they would create their own society based on love and caring rather than selfish self-indulgence and hedonism like the hybrids had.

Outside the sphere, the Ixilian spiders had continued to breed, spread across the infinite icy expanse and grouped around the pockets of water or even living in the water filled caverns themselves. When sentience came to them with came a new ability, a future sight. They saw the hybrids seeking to enslave all their kind as they spread out from the confines of the sphere where they lived currently and into the darkness beyond. The saw the Aqualunians, spiders different from themselves, immortal and uncaring, exploring the infinite expanses of space on their bridges of ice, far beyond the reach of the hybrids. The Aqualunian spiders would abandon them if they ever came back and learned of the threat, they were immortal, yes, but their immortality was limited, they could still die and their children were mortal. They were a static race and they would guard their lives jealously and fearfully, avoiding any conflict or risk the older they became. The saw the Mylanni spiders, like themselves but different, infused with a need to care and to love, exploited by the hybrids and fleeing them and eventually being subjugated or destroyed, the hybrids having several advantages and the Mylanni spiders too reluctant to attack, their urge to love and to care making them ineffective fighters.

The Ixilixian spiders knew what they had to do - there was no discussion, they could already see every future possibility and choose the best course of action. They would seek out and fight the hybrids, convince them to change their ways by force and manipulation and seek out the Aqualunians to tell them of what had happened that they might be eternal record keepers.

However, it was not that simple. Their temporal vision was not godlike, they could not see past or future anywhere. The could only see into their own pasts or futures or the past and future or the area they happened to be in. As ideas were formed and discussed, many spiders ran away, seeing their own deaths while others fought to make them stay, seeing the need for their deaths as a trigger for another future event that would save yet more lives and help them win the war with the hybrids. In fighting broke out as the Ixilixian spiders predicted, countered and counter-predicted each others moves to try and manipulate, kill or otherwise stop or force one course of action or another and the entire race plunged into war amongst themselves until they whittled themselves down, becoming fewer and far between. The spiders as generations passed became suspicious and afraid of their own kind, the constant battle of future vision draining them and risking sending them spiralling into madness. Instead, the Ixilian spiders developed into small groups of like-minded individuals or just lived as hermits, not even meeting each other to mate and instead replicating rather than procreating with others to avoid the battle of future wills.

A small band of Ixilixian spiders clung to the ideas of freeing the Mylanni from the clutches of the hybrids and tried but they were too few and those that weren't killed where captured, their future seeing abilities used to further the hybrid's own aims.

Some of the Ixilixian spiders formed a new religion. The could see into the past of their race and knew they were crafted by a great being, a God. it had given them this sight and other Gods had tainted their race with other characteristics, leaving them the only pure ones. They believed the other must be eradicated from existence but knew they could never reach the Aqualunians without a huge effort, developing tools and equipment to carry water up into the heavens with them so they could survive the long journey to hunt them down. Together the followers of the religion communed, using their future sight to see the fruits of their own labours and implement them in the present and rapidly they became highly advanced, in a very short time reaching the very limit of what they could achieve technologically from using just ice (which was the only material in the world, other than the plants and soil of the sphere of the hybrids). Using their advanced water storage and carrying technologies, pumps and pipes, they began building into the stars after their enemies, the Aqualunians. Of course, they had enemies on the surface too, the Mylanni and the abominations that were the hybrids. Both would need to be destroyed and so the Spiders of Purity began their plans for that too, turning their advanced technologies to the cause of destroying the Mylanni and hybrids once and for all.

Other Ixilixian spiders cared not for their purity and in fact felt that their vision was a curse wrought upon them by their creator. Thousands plucked out their own eyes so that they could not see the visions and could spend their time atoning for whatever unknown sin they had committed whilst others sought out the Aqualunians, who with their past vision they knew were immortal, seeking from the lessons of they might gain immortality for themselves, of what they had done to earn such a gift from the creator. 

The Aqualunian spiders remained unaware of what was happening back on the surface, having explored far out into the infinite, empty expanse of the universe on their vast bridges. They cared only for one thing, now that they were self-aware, and that was to explore, to learn and, aware of how fragile their own immortality really was and how their own children were born mortal, they coveted life fiercely, fearful of any potential threat or accident that might rob them of their lives. They continued to expand outwards, but more slowly and with more caution, building vast structures, learning about complex and intricate solutions to the engineering problems to create stronger and safer structures as they they expanded ever outwards. Of course, they knew of gravity and knew how precarious things were getting, now they were out so far so many turned back to build stronger, safer foundations, afraid they might fall and tumble through the infinite expanse to the deaths, shattered on the icy ground far below.

A time of War was coming for every spider; loving, pure, hybrid or immortal. 

Chapter 29: Malachi - If things weren't complicated enough...

Watching the antics of the creations of his siblings, Malachi wondered if a new dynamic would make things more fun. A brewing war between spiders and hybrids could hurt his plants. Not likely, considering the opposed races had no use for them. The forests would be an incidental battlefield if anything. Nevertheless, with humans gone the fruits were going uneaten. They did look pretty though.

In a quiet corner of the Isle, Malachi swung on a fruit-vine, spinning and arcing recklessly. When the vine snapped and the fruit splattered across a bough Malachi became more sombre. There was a little breeze among the trees, and the sounds of the trees' growth echoed along their lengths but other than that it was far too quiet for his liking.

He set about throwing ideas and materials together. He tossed away a half-made collection of vines and blood. Perhaps a hybrid would come across this unliving mess. Ha. That'll take it's mind off war for a second.

Malachi flowed over the remaining deserted forests, under and over great arcing boughs. The half-creation felt too similar to what already was. He needed change not a copy. He didn't want some species that would stay the same, endlessly predictable. Boring. They need a motive other than love and hate. How do motives work for a creature? Carrot and/or stick... Malachi blinked. What? Nevermind.

Okaaaay... Creatures strive for a pleasure, or the avoidance of some pain. Okay. For his new creature, there would be a motive to breed, if only to create interactions. But they would endlessly spread across the land, filling it up. There had to be a limit, or a dynamic in place to regulate their number...

Why is a god's life so complicated.

Right, He thought. The animal would eat fruit. It would eat the bark of the plants. It would also need water and some nutrients from the earth. In fact, it would need a combination of all of them to not... stop existing? Huh, another problem.

Malachi was getting impatient. Death. There needs to be death.

Death: A consequence for hunger that affects the creatures that eat. A consequence for injury healing cannot repair. To create an equilibrium. Survival. Meaning living things would die by natural causes: injury, hunger, conditions outwith that they were intended to exist in, old age and sickness (He'd probably have to work some of them out later... Malachi sighed) That sounded good. But just in case: it will only apply to his creatures and creatures that the other gods wish to die.

This'll do, He thought:

Malachi creates the concept of death which applies to creatures designated by their creator to be able to die naturally.

That would do. All creators could opt-in for their creatures to live like this.
They'd have to define the conditions for death
, but other than that it ought to work properly, Traveller willing. And it would be harder for wrathful gods to destroy each others' creatures, since only the creator could give the gift of Mortality.

Malachi will happily use his spare ACT to cover this, should the Traveller deem it too complex for a single ACT to cover without going wrong, but he asks sweetly that since the eon is soon to end, and another quick ACT of Malachi's would make viewing the world  a more interesting activity, the Traveller deem it OK for one ACT.

Chapter 30: Aqualuna Tries Again

 

Aqualuna watched the various breeds of spiders, and shook her head. She knew that they all had free will, and would do whatever they chose to do, with whatever abilities the Gods had given them. Still, there was an emptiness in her heart, where her humans used to be. She could not bear to see them starve without dying, suffering forever, so she had destroyed them.

The Aqualunian spiders still existed that she had given intelligence to, but it was not the same. She decided that she would try again to create humans, but this time she would be very careful how she constructed her Act.

She knelt on the land that now existed, and scooped up two handfuls of clay. She molded them into a similar version of her previous humans, one male, one female. These new humans were more advanced, though. They had the intelligent instinct to survive, that her previous humans had lacked. They would also have the sentience to be self aware. They would know who they were, and what their capabilities were.

When Aqualuna was finished molding her new humans, she breathed life into them, attempting to create a brand new breed of humans, with sentience mixed with intelligence. She held the two humans in her arms, and showed them the wonders of the world they and all their descendants would inhabit. She plucked two ripe fruits from a nearby tree, and showed her humans how to eat to survive.

ACT: Aqualuna tries to create a brand new breed of humans with sentience mixed with intelligence.

Chapter 31: A Leader is Born

Ixilixi watched the universe around it with profound sadness. Things had changed beyond recognition. The pure ice worlds with only the ice spiders a long distant memory.


The only respite were a few descendants of the first race, pure and devoted in their worship of their creator. They were to rid the universe of all the impurities, and hoped that it, Ixilixi would bless them in their endeavor.


But it knew that the burden of looking into time, came with a heavy price. The weak would always succumb to it eventually. Even it, as a God, found the information often too overwhelming. It had watched the strife amongst its children, the madness that had destroyed many. Some had regrouped and now strove to find ways to fight the other races, while others hid away.


It was the God of Destiny, and it knew that it had to bestow one creature with the destiny to unite all the Ixilixians and to enable it to protect them from all that might harm its children. And so it scoured the universe for the strongest of them all, the least corruptible and the most charismatic.

A powerful and wise Ixilixian spider, from the Spiders of Purity was chosen. Now called ixi, this spider would be given extra powers, shall be inspired to be the protector to all Ixilixians. It shall unite the rest of the Ixilixian tribes with the Spiders of Purity, and pave the way for the dominance of the Ixilixian spiders into the rest of the universe.

It shall thus be written in its destiny, that it is to be the uniter and protector of all the Ixilixian tribes.

Its wise and able mind shall be bestowed with the capacity to sieve and sift all information in the temporal dimension through all of space. It shall not only be able to look into time itself, but be able to understand the consequences of all actions in all dimensions.

It, Ixilixi will itself be the source from which this wise mind shall get its powers of interpretation and extrapolation.

Act 1 : Bestow a wise and strong spider with the destiny to unite all the Ixilixian tribes.

Act 2 : Give it the God-like capacity to interpret the temporal dimensions in all of the universe, to protect the Ixilixian spiders from harm.

Chapter 32: The Dissolution and The Sundering

Gods were beings of Action, of Intent. They were Divine Will personified. No, the relationship was far more tightly coupled than that. Gods weren't merely being
of
 Action. They
were
 Action and those that did not Act, did not exist, for the Gods themselves were only an expression of their own wills and nothing more.

Thus it was that Ishka began to fade away into nothingness, The Goddess' inaction bleeding her will out into the cosmos until she was no more. Only the results of her Acts lived on to remind anyone she had ever been.

The Traveller mourned as his child ceased to be. The universe was still but a newborn baby, as were his progeny and Ishka was as a stillborn to him and he wept. The Aeon still had not passed and now Ishka had gone to an eternal sleep that, unlike the others when they would finally rest as the Aeon came to a close, she would never wake from.

Presently, the Traveller's sadness turned to anger. His rage boiled and fumed and with a massive fist he lashed out at the universe, shattering it into a million pieces. No more was the universe a single plane of ice, instead now huge chunks floated in the void, separate from each other, the water bleeding out of them to fall down in vast waterfalls. Water sometimes caught be the motions in the air, the new force of gravity or the currents that the Gods and imbued formed into liquid moons, floating in the darkness. Thus, the universe was no longer a whole continent of infinite tunnels and infinite void but rather it became a void riddled with infinite floating islands of jagged ice, moons of water, swirling waterspouts and waterfalls.

Many were killed in the Traveller's rage, hurled into the abyss or crushed by the impact. The spanning bridges of the Aqualunians were smashed, sending many hurtling to their deaths or others, the more lucky ones,  to crash into moons of water where they could then feed and rebuild again. Other were lucky and their bridges remained intact, rising up from a lonely island into the heavens and perhaps connecting with other islands out in the darkness.

One island remained different from the others, for it had a Sun and thus is had light, but the shell that had surrounded it for so long was shattered and the hybrids that lived in the sunlit realm could for the first time see out into the vast darkness from their homes.

The other spider races were spread and isolated across the islands, spread throughout the universe.

Chapter 33: Mylann: Tears

Mylann mourned over the lost of her sibling and the destruction of the universe. All the beauty she had presented to it was as shattered as the ice lands were.

Overcome by devastation, Mylann could not decide on what to do next. Neither could she on how to restore the universe of its former perfection.

Tears, like illuminant crystals roll away from her. They sparkle and sizzle against her opaque surroundings. In a burst of inspiration, Mylann realises how she can fix the universe.

ACT:
Mylann attempts to create stars to cheer up her siblings and the Traveller. She wishes to name them the Orbs of Light & Love.

Chapter 34: Civilisation, Madness, Light

Like her sibling, Maraena ceased to enact her will upon the universe and lacking purpose, her form faded away until everything she was ceased to be, the results of her Acts the only memory she had ever been. 

Malachi sought to define a new universal law, an edict that would define the very nature of Life itself. Through his lips the words were spoken and the law was written indelibly upon the fabric of existence. Those whom the Gods create will die as decided by their creators. The law was made and so it was so, however no Gods had yet deemed any of their creations to be subject to this law and so the undying lives of universes inhabitants continued unending as before. However, all it would take was one utterance, one decision by a God upon one of their creations and it would take effect, the law of the universe forever changing the race irreversibly by God or mortal.

Upon the vast island of earth within the broken, icy sphere Aqualuna exerted her will over the elements and again crafted two humans, a male and female, with the abilities to think and reason. Unfortunately, they were not alone, the Hybrids had been colonising the vast expanse and eventually over the years, the Hybrid civilisation came across the fledgling one of the Humans. The Hybrids were shocked, they had seen their ancestors erased and now they saw them again, renewed and this time intelligent, sentient. A shockwave of questions rippled through the Hybrid's civilisation. What did this mean? Should they return to their old way, enslaving them for breeding with the Mylanni spiders they kept enslaved? Would these new Humans with the newly awoken spiders create the same Hybrids as before or would they be tainted, different? Should they just destroy the Humans? Much discussion was had and no decision was made. Instead, the Hybrids decided to wait and watch, building a vast wall between their empire and the slowly developing Human civilisation so that there would be no interference between them. Falling back on their hedonistic ways, the Hybrids treated the walled off civilisation of the Humans as a zoo, creatures to watch for their amusement. For now.

The Humans, undoubtedly, discovered the existence of the Hybrids though accident and exploration. Some were terrified, others, seeing the resemblance between the Hybrids and themselves thought of them as perhaps Gods or creatures of great power. Hybrid worship cults formed amongst them as their civilisation grew while other Humans sought to learn more about them, setting of centres of study and learning about these strange, elusive creatures that seemed to watch them from afar. Eventually, they came across the Wall, a vast, tower expanse of dirt and ice that seemed to stretch on as far as their race had ever explored. Had they found the home of these creatures? The cults thought so and the believers moved to the Wall, setting up their own cities and towns near the holy place, the barrier between their own world and what they believed must be a paradise beyond. Digging through the Wall was considered a blasphemy most foul and the believers would kill any one who dared attempt such a thing, patrolling the Wall constantly to defend it against intruders.

While this was happening, Ixilixi touched the essence of one spider as it plotted the downfall of it's impure fellows. It imbued the spider with knowledge, sharing with it the vast plan for all things. Images of conquest and unification spread through the spider's mind, visions of a utopian future where only pure spiders, the chosen ones, ruled supreme and all others were destroyed, the universe cleansed of their taint. Alone, the spider would unite the tribes of the pure and together they would grow until they were unstoppable force. It saw it, one of many possibly futures and knew it would be the true future in it's icy heart.

Immediately the spider began his work, taking for himself the name Ixi, the name of the chosen one, after the name of the God, their God, who had chosen him to be the leader of his people. With every meeting he had, every word he spoke, more came to his cause, imbued as he was with a divine conviction that it was impossible for the other spiders to deny, knowing instantly that he alone had been spoken to directly by their creator, truly a chosen one indeed.

Ixilixi was not done however, it sought to bestow upon Ixi power that even the Gods themselves did not possess, the ability to see the future perfectly, to be able to see the consequence of every action throughout all time. Such a thing was beyond Ixilixi's power or even the Traveller himself and the Act was wasted. The Traveller was angered by such an attempt to out do even his own powers and to give them to a mere mortal as well and as such, his Wrath reached out into Ixi's mind. Rather than understand all possible consequences, Ixi's mind instead became awash with convoluted, bizarre visions of futures both possible and impossible, the laws of cause and effect in his mind twisted and warped so his future sense told as many lies as it did truths, but Ixi had no way of telling one way or the other, in fact as the visions became more bizarre and twisted, Ixi believed he was seeing God's true will and following the paths his visions laid out for him, he led the Church towards performing increasingly more chaotic, twisted acts, his followers going along blindly, captivated by their Prophet, the thought of doubting the one chosen by their creator never even crossing their minds.

Mylann mourned the passing of her sibling and saw the Traveller's pain inflicted upon the universe. She cried and her tears fell across the heavens, bursting into balls of flame and filling the infinite skies with stars, lighting up the previously pitch black expanse for all to see, warming it with their light. Where stars formed too close to an icy island, the island and the spiders that inhabited died, melted. The vast walkways through the void began to melt as stars randomly formed amongst them, some crumbling as they lost their integrity sending many of the few remaining Aqualunians tumbling to their destruction.

Now that the universe had warmed, due to the stars, and was bathed in light, the Humans began to venture beyond the icy-sphere but they could not go far as there was no food beyond their lands. Some enterprising Humans took earth and seeds from the plants that grew in their home and set up to the new lands, hoping to make new lands suitable for colonisation. However, as they spread out onto the icy plains of the ice island the sphere was on, they came across spiders, being like the Hybrids some worshipped, but different for they had no human features at all. Some fled in terror but a few tried to communicate and when the spiders began to help them grow their plants, helping them make farmland with the soil they had shipped from their island, the Humans realised they had found another race, a friend and that unlike the elusive Hybrids that seemed to many to be merely myths, these were real. They were not alone.

The Mylanni spiders had found an ally with the Humans and they helped them expand away from the lands of the Hybrids, hoping that one day together they might work to turn the Hybrids from the dark path of slavery and hedonism they were on to a new path of understanding and caring. The divine edict to ate with humans still lurked within the Mylanni spiders but these Humans were not the old humans and so the urge was weaker, especially now they had gained sentience, but some Humans, especially those who worshipped the hybrids, did mate with the spiders that approached them and soon a new race of Hybrids began to grow. This new race was identical to the first in all but one respect. These new Humans were not tainted by the amorality and rampant self-interest of the first and thus nor were this new race of Hybrids, who lived in harmony with both the Humans and the Mylanni, were peaceful. They were fewer in number and did not multiply as fast as the other Hybrid race had done, for the Mylanni were only very weakly inclined to mate with Humans unlike before.

The Human's who worshipped the idea of the Hybrids, upon hearing of these events began vast pilgrimages from the Wall to see these new Hybrids from beyond the sphere and soon the Hybrids intermingled with the Humans. The Mylanni however warned them of the other race, their dark cousins beyond the wall and horrified, many of the Humans who had previously worshipped the Hybrids begged the Mylanni for forgiveness, which they were of course granted by the kind, caring race. The new Hybrids avoided entering the sphere, not wanting to be seen by the other Hybrids and draw their wrath down upon the humans and themselves.

 

Chapter 35: Walking Away

Ixilixi had tried to grant a single spider the power to look into the future of its own world, but had only angered the traveler. Now it watches its creation Ixi, drowning in chaos, and the Ixilixians spiders following it blindly.

It sighed and decided to let go of its impossible dream of a pure world in its own image. It wished the spiders well, and walked into a temporal curve and spun a web of space and time around itself.

It sat there and waited for the next Aeon where, hopefully, things might not be so complicated.

Chapter 36: Hichiti Acts Before The Sleep

A vortex of cosmic energy ripped through an empty space in the universe. The glorious cry of a new god as it was made real filled the universe for a brief minute before a giant mass of muscle stepped out of the void and into existence. His face was ram-like in appearance, with great curved horns, large brown eyes, and a beard growing outward from his chin. Vines wrapped around the newly formed god's body, growing at an alarming and chaotic rate.

The god flexed his muscles and brayed, "I am Hichiti! I am God of the Wilds, of the beasts yet to come, and of justice! I am the scale of balance, and the one who goads the firm of heart into action!" He chuckled at his outburst before bowing at his elder siblings and his father. From the corner of his eye he saw the world that was, the earthly plane that his elders had toiled over for the unknown years when he was not in existence. What disturbed him about this world however was not the frail looking humans, or the plants that grew. It was the hybrid and regular arachnids that caused him to scowl and snort. He knew better than to question his more experienced brothers and sisters though, and opted instead to ask for their favour before the great sleep was to begin for them, as unwilling as he was for the premature rest.

He envisioned a world where his creations would make up for his absence in its creation, where the humans would not be terrified at the prospect of facing the twisted hybrids that he saw beyond a great wall. Then an idea grew in his mind. What if he created a new species? A sentient race that would serve as spurs for the humans, bringing them alongside for a battle against the hybrids, against the corrupted powers of his sister's prophet.

Rising and then facing his sister Aqualuna he asked, "Sister, I may be your younger and command no authority over you or your domain but could you assist me in this final act before the great sleep begins? Ixilixi has already shut her eyes, yet her creations run rampant over the wall. And the injustice that has been inflicted on the Mylanni spiders must be repaid twice fold no?"

 
Not waiting to see his sister's response, he acted. Summoning his newly formed powers he created a pair of creatures that would serve as the patriarch and matriarch to his race of soldiers. The creature on the right was much like himself in appearance, minus the great size. His female partner was much smaller than he, and had no horns which to protect yourself. He built these creatures, these goat-people, with an instinct to never yield, to be sturdy of mind and body, and to be monogamous. However they still lacked the sentience that would allow them to function in the manner that he desired.

"Before we sleep sister I ask, no I beg, of you to grant my creations the intelligence to speak and the cleverness to fight."

Hichiti has chosen to leave on this planet a new race of creatures in his image. He also appeals to his sister Aqualuna to grant them sentience.

Chapter 37: Malachi - Green Space

The world was no longer whole, but glistened from great bergs drifting through the no longer uniform gravity. The slow dance pleased Malachi. It was however, very cold and icy.

Immediately he felt that his plants should be allowed to spread more widely across the world and allow the many races who fed from them to follow.

Act - Malachi attempts to replace much of the ice of the majority of large floating islands with earth suitable for plant growth.

The plants would probably spread slowly through the eons, naturally and due to the races. As he slid into a God's sleep, he felt great anticipation for the world he would find at waking.

Chapter 38: Aqualuna's Animals

Aqualuna heard her youngest brother's plea, but she could not grant his wishes. She had angered their father when she granted another sibling a favour, and asked for too much. Her beloved humans suffered for that error in judgement. They were denied the intelligence to eat, and starved eternally, for they were immortal. Aqualuna was forced to destroy them, to end their suffering.

The great Traveller allowed her to create a new version of humans that could now think and reason. She wanted to use her one Act for something of her own to benefit them, before she rested for a time. She did not want to take the chance of causing her father's wrath again.

As time advanced, Aqualuna saw her humans grow and thrive on the plants that now existed on their sun warmed island. This pleased her, but she realized something was missing. There were no other creatures on this world besides the spiders, hybrids and humans. She thought the humans needed something more to eat than just plants; some other form of transportation besides their own feet.

She sat on the land, amid a vast bed of clay. She amused herself with sculpting many creatures with four legs. They had fur or thick hides to protect them. She called them animals. They made them in male and female versions, so they could procreate by giving live birth to their young. Some of these animals were big and strong enough to carry humans. They would be gentle enough to allow the humans to tame them for transportation.

Other animals would be designed to nourish the humans. She blew a soft breeze that settled on them all, causing them to breathe the air into their lungs, and live. She hoped the great traveller would approve her attempt to give these new animals the gift of life, with the instincts for survival.

Aqualuna knew that her sibling Malachi had designed a universal law, that defined life itself.  The law was made that those whom the Gods created would die as decided by their creators. She decided to use  this law that already existed, upon all of her creations. Humans as well as the new animals that she attempted to create, would no longer be immortal. Death could occur in many ways, but for some of the animals, they would die to provide food for the humans.

Aqualuna knew that her youngest brother had domain over the beasts, but he was not specific in his Act. She wanted to be specific about animals that were domesticated enough for her humans to raise for food, or transportation.

Act - Aqualuna attempted to create animals to be used by humans for food or transportation.

With her Act written and submitted to her Lord and father, The Traveller, Aqualuna  yawned delicately in a ladylike goddesslike manner, as she snuggled up in her vapour moon, and settled down for a nice looooooooooooooooooooong nap.

Chapter 39: Mylann's Day Off

Mylann grew tired of always creating. Until the new eon, she vowed not to create anything else. So instead, she observes her siblings.

Mylann obstains.

Chapter 40: The First Aeon

As the Aeon passed and the Gods fell one by one into an age long slumber, the last words they had spoken echoed through the universe, shaping it in their final Acts to their wills.


Into being on the earthy planes of the ice-sphere, emerged two beings, humanoid in appearance but with heads resembling those of goats. They stood strong and sturdy, stubborn and unyielding but lacked any intelligence of sentience to distinguish them from base animals. Not requiring sustenance, they lived and bred and they race grew, soon to be discovered by the humans that lived there also. The humans were shocked to discover a race seemingly so much like their own, but without minds like theirs, in fact, seemingly without any form of intelligence. Some tried to look after them, treating them like invalids, but the proud goat-people where stubborn and refused, no did they need any help, being strong and sturdy people. When humans thinking they were helping, tried to force the goat people, many humans were terribly injured. The humans soon learned to leave them alone, these strange reflection of themselves. They were dangerous, but seemingly harmless if not bothered. However, they grew wary of the races expansion - if this race was so stubborn and could not be reasoned with, what would happen when they outgrew their own colonies and had to expand into human territory? Some enterprising humans, not feeling anything regarding their races similar appearance, tried to tame and harness the goat-people as beasts of labour, but again, the unyielding stubbornness thwarted every attempt and the strength of the beasts often resulted in the severe, crippling injury of any who attempted such folly.


With but a thought, suddenly the universe rippled and as if paint had been splashed across the whole of it, suddenly vast stretches of the infinite icy expanse of the universe was suddenly different, the ice transformed into the earthy substance that lay at the heart of the hybrid’s territory. Spiders, the only race to have spread far and wide, saw the evidence of this change and were shocked as the land changed around them. Before they had felt a primal connection the the very structure of the universe, for was it not of the very same substance as themselves? With this change, many questions were brought to their minds. What other gods might there be that would do this? Perhaps that of the humans, a patron that saw fit to spread lands where they could flourish? It made sense, first the lights and heat and now the earth. The spiders were no longer the chosen race, it seemed. Of course, such doubts never crossed the minds of the Pure Ones. Such an Act was merely a test. Spiders lived equally well on earth or ice and so it meant nothing, merely that God wanted the humans to spread out further away from the safety of their burning spheres where the Pure Ones would find them all the more vulnerable and destroy them.


The humans and Mylanni spiders soon learned of the vast new stretches of earth and began expanding away from the first lands of humanity, wanting to distance themselves from the old hybrids at all costs. The new hybrids followed suit and together the three races created a civilisation that began to spread across the stars from floating island to island. With them the plants followed, vines and tendrils spreading across tracks of earth, seeds and spores launched into the vastness of space and carried on divine winds to other islands far and wide and soon the universe became a verdant place full of lush floating jungles, icy glaciers and floating lakes and seas.


Aqualuna invoked Malachi’s law of death and deemed it so that her creations could now die in a myriad of ways. The humans who had previously enjoyed immortality found their loved ones dying, the eldest and most knowledgeable falling down never to arise again. Mass panic shot through the race as they realised that sometime they would just... stop. Those that became injured no longer survived infirm and disabled and for some, this came as a small mercy against the horror the race endured as they struggled to survive in a world where their continued survival could not be taken for granted. The humans still loyal to the worship of the old hybrids saw this as proof that they had been punished for leaving the sphere and turning towards the false gods of the new hybrids and a war broke out amongst the humans that remained on the island over what had happened. Many died on both sides and eventually they split, those that did not believe in the godhood of the old hybrids leaving the sphere entirely to spread out further throughout the universe whilst the worshippers remained. The worshippers, sure that their Gods had punished their race, decided that they must go to them, to show them that some remained faithful. They began to tunnel through the great wall separating the hybrids from the human lands.


Aqualuna also crafted a race of animals of various sizes and shapes suitable for both eating and riding by the humans. They could be used as beasts of burden, as food or as transportation and their thick, woolly hides protected them for the savage coldness of the elements between stars. To the humans beyond the sphere, these animals were seen as a gift from the God that had taken away their immortality. Some were bitter but others came to term with their new lives. Without immortality, life became that much more precious and meaningful, unlike the hedonistic practices of the hybrid-worshippers. They used the animals, eating them or using them to carry out mundane tasks. They killed them and used their thick bones for tools and their hides for warm clothing and soon the expansion that had slowed down so far due to their mortality began to pick up again as they learned to adapt - the ever present danger of death forcing them to stop taking life for granted and learn and adapt themselves to new situations, to constantly improve. Many of these humans shunned the old times of immortality as a time of no progress and complacency and embraced there new, mortal lives wholeheartedly.


However, not all of the non-hybrid-worshippers felt the same. The new hybrids that lived amongst them lived much longer, being half immortal due to being a fusion of immortal Mylanni and mortal human. The Hybrids and Mylanni only bred with the most beautiful of humans so the human culture sprung up over the course of centuries a civilisation where the most beautiful were prized and given the most advantages, for they were charged with teaching their hybrid offspring the lore of the human race, so that the long lived hybrids might serve as tutors and shepherds for the comparatively short-lived race, guiding and protecting them as the Mylanni did protect them all. The Mylanni were like guardian angels that came down to bless the beautiful ones with their love and procreation to create hybrids and so the human civilisation became vain, yet hard working. The beautiful whilst rewarded for their natural gifts were also charged with great responsibility, the plain and ugly lived as normal. Those beautiful that couldn’t bare the weight put upon them, would deliberately scar themselves, ruining their looks to live a simple life whilst others, plain or ugly would seek ways to beautify themselves so they might be blessed with a better life. The development of fashion and cosmetics became a large section of human culture and civilisation, the bones and organs of the animals and pigments and juices of the plants worked into all manner of clothing and makeup.


Meanwhile the humans eventually dug through the wall, after years of toil and hard work. They were me with their gods face to face that the old hybrids were shocked at the intrusion, massacring them. Some were spared and brought the the slaving pits, but quickly died under the intense labour. Learning of this ‘death’ the old hybrids were shocked and intrigued. That these humans could die frightened them that the same might very well happen to them, after all, they were also part human. They began experiments and found to their relief they were immortal as always. That proved however that these humans must have somehow been different to the ones that had started their own race. Death was an intensely interesting phenomenon though, and perhaps this new concept could be added to the multitude of games and activities the hybrids indulged in. Of course, first they’d need to capture some humans.


In all this time, the spiders did not stand still. The Pure Ones, having bred a huge, immortal army, swarmed the land of the hybrids in a suicidal attack, that melted them all, but not before they could severely hurt them, rendering many so injured they could do nothing but spend their immortality in eternal suffering. The spiders knew that, immortal as their enemies were, they could not be killed, but they could be annihilated, torn asunder with such ferocity that nothing but fragments would remain, nothing left to breed and create more of the tainted spawn. With their essentially infinite supply of warriors, the kept up an never ending onslaught. The hybrids retaliated, kicking their own breeding factories into overdrive. They previously had no need to breed, being immortal and selfish they had little desire to create young that would distract them from their own hedonistic pursuits but now they bred fast, training as warriors. However, they were no match, even with the advantage of their home turf melting the intruders, against the sheer numbers. They were selfish, pleasure seeking creatures and didn’t have the warrior abilities required to overcome their opponents. Those that survived, fled to other stars and were soon met by humans. Some mistook them for the new hybrids of their own, but soon they betrayed themselves and those not killed were ostracized and outcast, not even the Mylanni wanting to help them after the centuries of torture and slavery they had committed.


the warped and twisted plans of the Pure Ones were ever more chaotic. With the warped future sense of their leader, Ixi, they fought amongst themselves as much as they attacked the humans and remaining Aqualunians and Mylanni, any sign of conflicting thought or imagined slight seen as a condemning sign of impurity. With constantly shifting plans as the myriad of warped futures filtered through Ixi’s brain, this happened a lot and over the centuries the Pure Ones became a barbaric empire of violent, crazed and depraved spiders, even as they saw the future clearly, those that turned away from the crazed Ixi were destroyed, condemned to suffer forever as melted and smashed fragments of ice by their own kind, whom, seeing their own futures were too afraid to rise up, and too swayed by the charisma of Ixi’s rantings.


The goat-people spread after the humans and fought off the Pure One attacks with their advanced strength. They were stubborn and whilst the lacked sentience they would not be moved from their homes and fought unrelentingly. Being also immortal, they unknowingly served as guardians for the humans - stemming the tide of the ever growing hordes of Pure Ones that sought to swarm over the entire universe and tear every living thing asunder until only they remained.


Four immortal races fought continually, building up their forces. The spiders of all kinds bred immense immortal armies around all the water sources. The Aqualunians, who did not require water to operate, served as generals and messengers, communicating between armies across the vast ice-ways between islands. Mylanni spiders bred fast, creating a huge army of healers and medics that tended to the Aqualunian’s children as well as their own ans they fought against the ever increasing force that sought to destroy them all. As the tide seemed to be turning against them, the Pure Ones with the future sight saw the only way out. They betrayed Ixi, destroying him and now, unshackled from the crazed and erroneous visions, they began once again to gain the upper hand - their powers of foresight a grand advantage.


The universe became littered with billions upon billions of spiders, their bodies melted and smashed, trapped in eternal living agony, the Mylanni, sorting through them and rebuilding Mylanni and Aqualunian spiders slowly from their components and leaving the Pure Ones remains to suffer. To fuel these eternal armies, the spiders of both sides needed water. With the help of the humans, the hybrids, the Aqualunians and the Mylanni all working together, they managed to keep themselves going, just, but for thousands of miles outwards the universe was drained of liquid water. Eventually the Pure Ones were deprived long enough that they ceased to move, frozen in their current state, trapped forever until the day they are given water again along with several Mylanni and Aqualunian children that were in the midst of battle at the time and beyond the reach of the water bearers. Fearing the worst, the spiders attempted to herd the goat-people by destroying bridges and pathways between islands until the sphere and the whole waterless region that contained the fallen, dried out spiders was cut-off from the rest of the interconnected islands. The goat-people spread amongst the fallen spiders, filling the cut-off region with their stubborn, strong offspring over the years. The region was became known as the dead zone, and the goat-people became as guardians, destroying any that might attempt to reawaken the fallen spiders in their midst. Throughout the dead zone floated the eternally tormented remains of the spiders that were destroyed and torn apart. Like their frozen brethren they were doomed to an immortal existence trapped and unmoving but unlike the fallen, those crushed and broken suffered in eternal pain as well as the unending isolation of being trapped within their own minds. In silent agony, the Pure Ones waited for the day they could see in the future that told of their reawakening. After all, the winds blow through the universe and sooner or later, despite the actions of the races, one of the floating seas or lakes will eventually collide or rain down upon the dead zone and awake their sleeping enemies.


As the races begin picking up the pieces of their broken lives, so do the Gods begin to wake as the dawn of a new Aeon breaks.

Chapter 41: Ixilixi Awakens

Ixilixi stretched its many limbs as it came out of its cocoon of time. It looked into the universe and saw change - a lot of it, and it sighed.

The world was certainly nothing like what it had foreseen. While, it
was
the God of Time,  all its extrapolations of space-time only considered  the events that occurred within

the universe. It could never 'see' the influence of the actions of the Traveller and all its siblings meddling and acting from the outside.

And so it sat there, staring at the civil wars that raged, at the spiders - both pure and impure. At the ugly 'others', who usurped the universe that belonged to its beautiful creations. Watching them, it realized that something needed to be done about them. All the spiders needed to unite, irrespective of which tribe they were from. They needed to let go of past differences and show their allegiance to it,  Ixilixi, their original creator.

Act 1: Bestow an Ixilixian spider with the power of charismatic leadership.

Act 2: Give the spider its destiny : to unite all the races of spiders not corrupted by the other races of animals.

Chapter 42: Mylann Awakes

Mylann watched with interest as her sibling Ixilixi created "Destiny." It amazed her and brought on an idea of her own. If such a law could be introduced, then could it not have an enforcer? Someone who spun the threads of fate into a beautiful tapestry that held the future and life of all races.

Ixilixi planned to keep Destiny to hisself and give only to his favoured creatures - the spiders. On the other hand, Mylann believed in equality and that all the creatures should have a Destiny - including animals. She was aware of the catastrophic effect of giving an animal the same kind of Destiny as a human, so she would, to some extent, have to tone it down a bit. Perhaps an animal's Destiny could be to feed the people in a famine or to win animal tornaments?

Summing all this up, Mylann considered letting some people choose their own Destiny. At the end she decided it would best to create a galliant enforcer who would choose those worthy of choosing their own Destiny. This would include a test that only the most pure-hearted, compassion and bravest races could pass.

Breaking off a tiny piece of her soul, she attempted to create a being more beautiful, pure and intelligant than the previous races.

Act One
: Create enforcer named Verity.

Act Two
: Give her the powers to mould and give all races their Destinies.

Chapter 43: Malachi - A new playing field

With his Wakening, Malachi found great delight in the old world's new permutation. There was a great sense of achievement in him. He and his bretheren had made this themselves. This beautiful reality. It was chaotic. It was filled with uncertainties. It was a joy to behold. It was
fun
.

Looking at the existence around him ,Malachi thought he understood something of his own creator. The life of a god... It was all about fun. All about observing and learning and finding satisfaction in one's actions. Learning about oneself through action and consequence. A god, in theory, has infinite power for change. However, there were things a god could choose not to do, things judged more important than others. A god, it seemed, was something interesting to observe, especially if it were oneself.

'Enough introspection,' he thought to himself. - 'There is a world in which to revel! Act! Define oneself through action! See what Malachi will become next as he changes the world and therefore himself!'

Malachi decided he was beginning to sound a little hysterical. He needed to get out more. Distracting himself with the growth of the plants, the trials undergone by the many races, the very
feel
of little bits of existence interacting, he set about looking for something to play around with.

The mortals - now they were really something. Death had made them so much more than the immortals - a drive to survive, adapt,
live.
Mortality had been a great idea, he thought. Not to everyone's taste, of course, but the relations between mortals and immortals were made much more interesting by virtue of their differences.

Yes, it was all in difference, in change. Only with variables and uncertainty could you find joy in creation. That's what The Traveller was about. Omniscience must be so
dull
. Limiting omniscience by creating gods with their different unknown agendas, their interacting Acts... Something like that. It's all in the uncertainties. Without ignorance there cannot be learning or discovery.

clever

However... this Destiny... Something sounded suspicious about it. Defining a creatures actions? Well, more specifically, the end result of their actions... It limited uncertainty of course. It might be amusing to see how individual destinies warped around one another, inevitably reaching their end results by variable paths without negating others' destinies. And what about after fulfillment? A new Destiny? Or would Destinies be ongoing...

Yes, perhaps enjoyable viewing for a time. But it did encroach on the chaos Malachi thrived upon. Well, entropy. Dynamicism. Uncertainty. Whatever.

Well, we shall see how that goes. Give it a chance anyway. In the meantime, what to do...

A little more chaos in the world. Yeah. Sounds like fun.

Act:   Malachi attempts to cause matter uninhabited by life/vital forces to change almost imperceptibly slowly into other similar forms of matter.

Perhaps an insignificant change, but given time... Well. Why not? Better than abstaining just to see how destiny plays out. A god must act to define itself, must it not?

Chapter 44: Aqualuna's Free Will

Aqualuna stretched, and the vapour moon surrounding her rippled in eddies of mist. She observed the actions of her siblings, and furrowed her brow with concern.. They had such great plans for the universe and its inhabitants. Some of those plans involved her humans, so she had to think about whether she wanted others to decide the fate of her beloved people.

She wished her humans to have the free will to choose their own path, their own destiny, and work toward that end themselves. She did not want any  God or  Goddess, (including herself) to plot out each human's fate, so that no matter what they did, they could not change their destiny.

Aqualuna did not care a whit if other creatures were given destinies, as long as that didn't involve harming humans. She was very protective of them. After all, it had taken two tries to perfect them.

ACT:
  Aqualuna attempts to give her humans the free will to choose their own destinies.

Chapter 45: Destinies and Follies

The blackness, a shimmering velvet canvas, is jeweled with the bright epochal actions of the gods and their children. A doorway sketched itself in the emptiness, streaming the exotic particles that are the template of all stories. The door curled in on itself, like timeworn bark bending from its trunk, revealing eternity in all its fractal, multicoloured glory. A silhouette stepped from it, and became absorbed by the blackness, the doorway healing itself with a sigh.

With prismatic eyes, the Traveller saw with a gaze that penetrated time and space within this neonate universe. He drifted in the void and, as the deeds of gods became known, smiled. It would become very interesting. 

The long slumber of Ixilixi had ended, and the Great Spider God once more pointed its composite awareness upon the universe it helped create. And it was not happy, noted the Traveller. Instead inchoate stirrings of war brewed in its thoughts. Ixilixi was a jealous god who valued fraternal purity, and as a consequence sent a piece of itself into its people. A singular  ice-spider rose above all others, radiant in countenance and personality. Upon its carapace was the long and arduous task of reunification. The ice-spider culture thrashed, wracked with the pangs of change as intransigent  factions were ruthlessly culled. Ixilixi gathered its cold people to its bosom, its blessing of eternal unchanging dripping like venom. The ice-spiders seethed on their watery worlds, ever vigilant for alien influences.

The Traveller was saddened to see that Hichiti had returned to the substance of worlds, dissolving in cosmic winds to spread out to all the corners of eternity, but decreed that the God of Scales' race of goat people still remained, as the champions of Aqualuna's humans.

The demigod Verity was beautiful, pure, and intelligent. She was also gifted with the ability to mold the destinies of the other races. This enraged the Traveller and as he began to strike her down and punish Mylann, he considered wisdom and asked if there were not a more peaceful resolution. Verity remained, a shining example of good virtue, and the Traveller gave unto her the hub of Unity. The races would not collide in wrathful combat, but engage in agreed upon contests of skills within the arena of Verity. Mylann, Goddess of All Things Beautiful, found herself fulfilled.

Malachi, the God of Play, was up to his old tricks, Acting to impose an imperceptible change upon non-sentient matter. The Traveller sank deep into stone and ice and other suchlike insensate matter where seconds were millennia, and watched. It was the music of spheres, the dance of particles, coalescing from random noise into strange but ordered patterns. Eventually these patterns accreted into more complex configurations and, influenced by external interactions of the baryons, into even further complexity. Consciousness rose from that conflagration of hidden light, rising and falling, an amplitude wave of culture. Malachi, in a careless and wasteful Act, had created countless separate and magnificent civilizations of transcendental beauty and wisdom that would never be seen and known by even the gods of this realm. The Traveller sighed, his eyes flashing. 

 Aqualuna gave her pet humans free will. The Traveller watched another squandered Act pass. As a Goddess of Life should know, Life always finds a way to forge ahead despite any obstacles thrown in its path. Destiny was just a self imposed manifest mandate upon the future by a being or groups of beings. Still the Travelled smiled upon the humans and their caprine guardians, at how lovely Aqualuna looked, walking among her creations. 

The Traveller moved on, the picture perfect scene of pearls and jewels and ice receding in the darkness. When all was just a star glistening in the darkness, the Traveller peeled open his door to become awash in its psychedelic grandeur. His face swam with fleeting shoals of light from countless worlds. Malachi was wrong. The Traveller did not get bored.

There was just too much to do.

